---
modified_date: 2024-02-02
layout: post
title: the pool
permalink: /the-pool
tags: poems mortality existentialism
---

I sit submerged, eyes closed, at the bottom;<br/>
<!--more-->
The pool's steady drone pressing lightly on my ears,<br/>
The children’s yammering muffled by the water.<br/>
<br/>
I’m alone on a busy summer day.<br/>
The air is bright and warm, the ground is hot.<br/>
The sky stretches blue and smooth above.<br/>
<br/>
I resurface and the day greets me with a roar,<br/>
Kids splashing around me, and only my eyes move<br/>
as I stand against the edge, hair dripping slowly.<br/>
<br/>
I’m unsure I’ll see a slow summer like this again.<br/>
I've finished playing and growing, and now<br/>
It’s time for the rest of my life.<br/>
<br/>
I think about the two decades behind me,<br/>
And then the six or so ahead;<br/>
I can almost count them on one hand.<br/>
<br/>
I plunge down into the water again;<br/>
This air, a few feet below, is thick and slow,<br/>
Darker, cooler, quieter.<br/>
<br/>
With every second here, my time grows scarcer.<br/>
<br/>
I think of the timid little puddles around the pool, drying in the sun;<br/>
Then I think of the sea and its colossal depths<br/>
Silently swallowing light and warmth with an unyielding appetite.<br/>
<br/>
I sit submerged with my head in my hands,<br/>
The vastness pushing on my eyes and ears.<br/>
I realize I can’t stay here.<br/>
<br/>
This is not my world. My world is a little bead necklace,<br/>
a string of moments precious and tiny and few,<br/>
And I’ll cherish it until it’s buried with me.<br/>
<br/>
I resurface again, this time embracing the greeting;<br/>
I breathe in the warm air and push myself out onto the hot cement.<br/>