---
layout: post
title: what I'm doing now
permalink: /now-dec-24-2023
tags: journal life books writing coding software movies tv-shows feminism
---

**Muze Radio**, Stephen King, _Poor Things_, and more.

<!--more-->

### Life

Finally filed Z's green card papers.
Phew!
Now we wait.

Whereas I was enjoying the fall, I'm not really enjoying the winter.
Winters are so gray here, in the Pacific Northwest.
It's making Z and I fantasize about living in a place with sunnier winters.

Visiting my mom and sisters in Victoria.
Spending lots of time in my favorite coffee shops -- [Hey Happy](https://heyhappycoffee.com/), [St. Cecilia](https://www.saint-cecilia.ca/), [Discovery Coffee](https://discoverycoffee.com/).
We're not staying for long, so I probably won't see many of my friends.
Our cousin is with us, visiting from Spain.

I think I lost another 4ish pounds, but I'm a bit skeptical of my vintage bathroom scale that I bought at Goodwill a few years ago.
Can my weight really fluctuate 8lbs in 24hrs??
Z googled it and apparently it's possible.

I've had fewer chances to play soccer recently.
Looking forward to playing in January.
I went to the physio and got some exercises to address a recurring issue I have with my right hip/groin.
I'm not diligent with the exercises though, never have been.
I find it hard to keep to scheduled or pre-determined activities.

We've been socializing a lot.
Luckily, Z and I have a similar need for periodic "alone time", a term I learned from her.
We support each other in our routine quest for it.
I've been realizing that I'm quite introverted.
I think it's taken me a long time to realize because of how social Mexican culture is.

### Coding

I didn't end up working on this site.
I'm bad at adhering to plans, even my own.
Instead I tend to follow [my impulses]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-01-28-progress-without-planning %}).

Instead of working on this site, I started a new project: a web app I called **Muze Radio**.
It's a new and improved version of [Muze Player](https://github.com/okjuan/muze), a web app I made in my last year of university (2018-2019).
The code is [here](https://github.com/okjuan/muze-radio) and the beta version of the app is available [here](https://okjuan.me/muze-radio).
I started on the new version on a whim and ended up obsessed for several days.

As my obsession gives way to a healthier interest, I am very happy to have published a functional version of the app.
Ever since I read [this article](https://awilkinson.medium.com/skateboard-bike-car-6bec841ed96e) in 2016, whenever I work on a project, I dutifully remind myself: if you want to build a car, build a skateboard first.
Then a bike.
Then a car.
At the end of each stage of the development process, you should have something that is not only an improvement on the previous version but also useful by itself.
This prevents wasted effort and enables incremental improvement.
If I suddenly stop working on this app and return to it in a year or two, I will find a minimal, functional app.
I could pick up where I left off without having to first fix a bunch of half-implemented features.
If instead I returned to an ambitious but incomplete prototype, I'd be (rightfully) tempted to scrap it and start over instead of trying to salvage it.

### Reading

I ended up reading all of Stephen King's [On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-12-09-on-writing %}).
Really enjoyed it.
Many of the recent posts on this site reference it.
In his book, King was entertaining and insightful, but he struck me as somewhat narrow-minded in an interview he did with Charlie Rose.
I understand that King was one of many blind to the brilliance of Kubrick's adaptation of _The Shining_, but I was put off by King's unwavering confidence in dismissing the film as a failure.

I got curious about Stephen King's fiction and started _The Green Mile_, which is supposed to be one of his best, but I lost interest.
The audiobook's cheesy narrator didn't help.
My impression is that King is a capable pop fiction writer, but not a literary standout.
Maybe I'll give _The Stand_ or _The Shining_ a try later on.

I've been loving audiobooks on Spotify.
I can't believe my luck.
I started listening to Bruce Springsteen's memoir, but then thought of Mark Lanegan's memoir, [Sing Backwards and Weep]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-12-23-sing-backwards-and-weep %}), which is supposed to be great.
I put that on instead and it gripped me instantly.
It reminds me of [Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url 2022-05-22-fear-and-loathing %}), but is much bleaker and written in a conversational voice.
More on this book forthcoming.

A hundred pages into [Infinite Jest]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-11-23-infinite-jest %}).
We'll see how far I get.
Read up a bit on the cultural lore around this book.
The New Yorker article [How to Read "Infinite Jest"](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2018/11/05/how-to-read-infinite-jest) was one of the highlights.

Continuing with Jane Jacobs's [The Death and Life of Great American Cities](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30833.The_Death_and_Life_of_Great_American_Cities).
Over two hundred pages in, still great.
She's not afraid to follow up her criticisms of orthodox city planning with concrete criteria for good city planning.
She values concreteness and reality above almost all other things.
She routinely and smartly derides "abstractions".
What matters are real people, real places, real events.

Started _Bird By Bird_ by Anne Lamott.
Did not grab me.
I suspect I'd have to push or skip through a bunch of content that I'm already familiar with to get to the new and thought-provoking stuff.
This is to be expected, considering I've read a lot of [books]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-02-25-several-short-sentences %}) [about]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-01-16-wounds-of-passion %}) [writing]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-04-05-draft-4 %}) [recently]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-12-09-on-writing %}).
I might listen to _Bird By Bird_ some more, but I have a few other audiobooks waiting in my Spotify library:
- Rick Rubin's _The Creative Act: A Way of Being_
- Temple Grandin's _Visual Thinking: The Hidden Gifts of People Who Think in Pictures, Patterns, and Abstractions_
- Rose Hackman's _Emotional Labor: The Invisible Work Shaping Our Lives and How to Claim Our Power_
- Peter Attia's _Outlive: The Science and Art of Longevity_
- Bruce Springsteen's _Born to Run_
- Maria Bamford's _Sure, I'll Join Your Cult: A Memoir of Mental Illness and the Quest to Belong Anywhere_

I saw Rick Rubin's book displayed in a store window for $40 or something like that.
It was a pretty book, but $40, really?
I checked Spotify and sure enough the audiobook is included in Spotify premium.
We should resist the invitation to view books as commodities and buy books new only in special cases and as a last resort.
When you feel the impulse to buy a book, ask yourself:
How excited would you be if the cover was ugly or stained or if the book was used but in fair condition?
That is, do you want it for its substance or its aesthetic?

### Writing

I am happy to see, looking back at the past month, that I've written several small pieces:

- [how to chart moods]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-11-30-chart-moods %})
- [where do ideas come from?]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-12-01-where-ideas-come-from %})
- [where do ideas come from? #2]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-12-05-where-ideas-come-from-2 %})
- [how to coordinate metaphors #2]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-12-12-coordinate-metaphors-2 %})

As I mentioned above, many of these reference Stephen King's book [On Writing]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2023-12-09-on-writing %}).
I love letting my activities overlap like this.
Let what I am reading feed into what I'm writing, what music I'm listening to, what movies and shows I'm watching, and vice versa.

### TV

_How To with John Wilson_, season 3.
Didn't realize this was the last season until I casually finished watching the last episode.

_The Last of Us_, season 1.
I loved the ending of the season, although it also broke my heart.
Brave, truthful writing.

_Severance_ and _Westworld_, both season 1.
Both have a really interesting premise, but neither grabs my attention.
The writing in _Westworld_ feels a bit off-the-mark.
_Severance_ is maybe a bit slow-paced.

### Movies

_Poor Things_, Yorgos Lanthimos's new movie.
One of my favorite movies of recent times.
Funny, and full of social commentary with feminist overtones.
Great acting from Emma Stone.
Aesthetically glorious -- playful cinematography; an incredible, unorthodox score; enthralling costume and set design.
Subtly reminiscent of Wes Anderson in its dryly humorous dialogue, explicit chapter headings, and tableau-like sets.
The movie's use of expressionism -- "art in which the image of reality is distorted in order to make it expressive of the artist's inner feelings or ideas", according to [this post](https://www.tate.org.uk/art/art-terms/e/expressionism#:~:text=Expressionism%20refers%20to%20art%20in,artist's%20inner%20feelings%20or%20ideas) -- is great because it conveys meaning subtly and makes the movie even more visually engaging.

However, I don't think this movie is perfect.
For one, the crappy British accents are distracting.
And I think the writing has some flaws.
Like why should Max be in love with Bella, and in a healthy way, apparently?
Also, I think the writing is sometimes a bit too direct or explicit about its message.
Like when the evil lord says that he loves to amass property and Bella is just another piece of his estate.
We didn't need to be told, we could already sense it from his character and the context.
For me, the story-telling spell breaks momentarily when I feel like the writers are trying to tell me something.
It reminds me that I'm watching a fiction designed by storytellers.
But I'm a bit picky about this.
I had a similar problem with the writing in [Barbarian]{{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2022-08-06-barbarian %}).

_Promising Young Woman_.
Second watch, this time with Z.
She's right that the movie is disappointing in its treatment of such a serious and important subject.
It pulls every punch.
Instead of rage and vengeance, we see wrist-slapping and finger-wagging.
_Poor Things_ promises much less and delivers much more feminist catharsis.

_Catch Me If You Can_.
Turned it off.
I'm realizing Spielberg is not my favorite.
Maybe he's like the Stephen King of movies.
Several weeks ago I started watching _The Fablemans_ on the plane and it felt a bit ridiculous, had to turn that off, too.

---

### What's next?

Keep losing weight.
Get back to playing soccer regularly.
Go on a weekend trip with Z to a hot springs resort.
Go snowboarding with friends.

Keep reading, keep writing.

Continue working on **Muze Radio**.
Recruit my friend Isaac for help.
Get my younger sister [Dani](https://danigallegdup.github.io/) to design me a favicon.

Spend time with friends.

Get back into the groove of work after the holidays.