---
layout: post
title: "what is this site? #2"
permalink: /what-2
tags: notes writing
---

In {% post_url_with_hover_card November | 2023-11-21-now %} I started posting [/now](https://sive.rs/nowff) updates and since then I have posted three others.
<!--more-->
This new practice has had a couple of nice side effects.

It has encouraged me to review the "What's Next?" section to see what intentions I had a month or two prior.
It's easy to forget.
If it doesn't reorient me to worthy goals, it amuses me to notice the bias of my intentions at the time I wrote my update.

The other benefit has been to encourage me to write about things.
The self-imposed task of writing periodic "now" updates leads to my writing about things I did recently that are indeed worth writing about.
If it weren't for my February update, for example, I wouldn't have written {% post_url_with_hover_card this vignette | 2024-02-01-hot-springs %} about the Harrison Hot Springs.
I've come to love vignettes like these, and have found joy in their realization from ordinary life.
This is one of the outcomes of my {% post_url_with_hover_card serendipitous exposure | 2024-04-25-things-lead-to-things %} to [New Journalism](https://okjuan.me/vbook/tags/new-journalism).

I want to be intentional and careful with how I approach writing on this site.
I caught myself fretting about posting unrefined pieces like {% post_url_with_hover_card going for a walk | 2024-04-07-walk %} and {% post_url_with_hover_card Vieux Farka Touré | 2024-04-07-vieux-farka-toure %} and wondering whether tweaking and updating them retroactively was cheating.
No no no.
Part of my vision for this site, this writing project, is that it not follow {% post_url_with_hover_card conventions inherited unconsciously from print media | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %}, where they were logistical constraints.
This writing project is digital, and thus can be reshaped and rewritten in totality with little effort.

If I choose to tweak, fix, gut, trash, or transform a piece, it's not only ok, it's _the point_.