---
modified_date: 2024-11-24
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #6"
permalink: /now-sept-30-2024
tags: journal
---

I've been getting injured, visiting the Canadian East, defining my pattern language, enjoying summer's end, reading, writing, coding, and more.
<!--more-->

### getting injured

I've been getting a bit unlucky.
My first attempt at returning to soccer goalkeeping resulted in a badly sprained finger.
The xray showed "a couple tiny fragments of bone," which the hand doctor that I was later referred to described as "technically a break."
To him I relayed the playful question my friend had asked: what happens to the bits of bone?
Yes, he confirmed, they get "resorbed."
(A subsequent internet search confirmed it was indeed a real word.)

A few weeks later, back in the outfield, my domain, I took a meanly struck soccer ball to the back of the head.
In my couple decades of playing soccer, I've headed many, many balls deliberately and even taken several to the face.
But I can't recall ever getting hit so firmly on the back of the head, or it ever hurting so much.
The real headache, though, was navigating the quagmire of bureacratic medical advice.
Was I really in mortal danger?
Or could I just go home and rest?
After a lot deliberating, consulting, and a tentative visit to the Emergency Room, my wife and I decide to go home for the night and consult a doctor the next day.

### visiting the Canadian East

Z and I spent a week in the Toronto area and then a week in Prince Edward Island.
It's embarrassing how much friendlier folks are over there compared to Vancouverites.
One of our theories on the subject is that it is easier to make friends in cities with more transplants, since they are circumstantially motivated to make connections.
People who have lived in a place for a long time already have an established social network and are therefore not incentivized to form new friendships.
Especially when the local culture is one of polite detachment.
In Vancouver, strangers walking past each other on the sidewalk rarely look at each other, even in residential neighborhoods.
It's very offputting for me and Z.
We are warm and friendly people.

Before I moved to Seattle in 2019, I was warned of the _Seattle freeze_, the aloof attitude of locals and their aversion towards making new friends.
But this stereotype never matched my experience of Seattle.
Everyday I have friendly interactions with folks -- at the coffee shop, by the mailboxes, at the lake, on the street.
The generous spirit extends to include dogs, which can be found everywhere in the city -- in grocery stores, in shops, in pubs, and even in restaurants.
I suspect that the tech boom and consequent influx of transplants from all over the US, Canada, and abroad has made the city a good place to make friends.
Notably, my friends here are almost exclusively _not_ from Seattle.
Several from Winnipeg and Victoria, one from Brooklyn, one from Arkansas, one from Connecticut, one from Montreal, one from Oregon, a few from the Midwest, and so on.

### forming a commune

One of my best friends just bought a house in West Seattle and a bunch of us are seriously considering moving in with him.
I would live upstairs with him and three of our friends would live in the groundlevel suite downstairs.
It's an exciting prospect, even though it would mean giving up our lovely apartment in Capitol Hill.
I would really miss the proximity to urban life, but would love to live in a little complex with a bunch of people I really like.
According to an architecture book I'm currently reading, [_A Pattern Language_](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/A_Pattern_Language), that's how people should live.
It asserts that even couples should not live alone:

> ideally, every couple is a part of a larger group household...If this can not be so, try to build the house for the couple in such a way as to tie it together with some other households, to form the beginnings of a group household, or, if this fails, at least to form the beginnings of a House Cluster.

The catalyst for this potential move is that Z and I want to reduce the total we spend on rent across our two homes, mine in Seattle and hers in Vancouver.
But the change has the potential to be much more than a practical compromise.
With our friends living downstairs, we would realize the House Cluster.
The backyard, which includes a garden, would serve as a sort of "public land" connecting our households.
The book makes strong claims about these aspects:

> People will not feel comfortable in their houses unless a group of houses forms a cluster, with the public land between them jointly owned by all the householders.

Even if I don't end up moving, I am very excited to help my friend plan, furnish, and decorate his new space.
And the book is serving as perfect inspiration

### reading & writing

There's something strangely satisfying about starting a new book while traveling.
While in Toronto and PEI, I returned to _A Pattern Language: Towns, Buildings, Construction_, a book I'd perused a few years ago.
I was reminded of the book while writing my personal list of essential homemaking ingredients and came up with the title {% vbook_post my pattern language | 2024-08-19-my-pattern-language %}.
I've been thinking about writing a piece like that for a while and, when I finally started, it gripped me like a fever.
Writing it while sitting at a bench on the deck looking out over the couple kilometers of green pastures connecting me to the Atlantic ocean was one of my favorite moments of my PEI visit.

The last couple months have been a fertile time for my writing.
I {% vbook_post wrote a vignette | 2024-08-02-bob-the-handyman %} about a handyman that fixed my kitchen cabinet a couple years ago, and I even {% vbook_post wrote about writing it | 2024-08-02-bob-the-handyman %}.
I wrote about the book {% vbook_post The End Of Absence | 2024-08-11-end-of-absence %} and about related thoughts I had {% vbook_post on boredom | 2024-08-11-boredom %}.
I wrote a {% vbook_post second entry | 2024-08-11-rules-2 %} on the topic of rules and a {% vbook_post third | 2024-08-12-tell-a-story-3 %} on the topic of storytelling.

The latter compared the writing between _House of the Dragon_ and _The Sopranos_.
At Z's encouragement, [I shared it on r/HouseOfTheDragon](https://www.reddit.com/r/HouseOfTheDragon/comments/1etvqml/why_house_of_the_dragon_is_good_but_the_sopranos/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button) and I received some encouraging responses.
It was the first time I shared my writing with complete strangers and I intend to do it again.
I think it's a great way to motivate diligence in my thinking and writing and to test my reasoning.
(It so happens that I recently came across a [blog by a fellow programmer and writer](https://jsomers.net/) and noticed that he posted his writing [on r/TrueLit](https://www.reddit.com/r/TrueLit/comments/wdjzuu/youre_probably_using_the_wrong_dictionary/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button).)

Other books I've partially consumed recently include "Short Introductions" to Hegel and Hume, and **The Listening Book**.

### enjoying the last stretch of summer

Yesterday a couple friends and I went on our last paddleboarding session of the summer.
It was a worthy finale.
We paddled up Lake Union to a new brewery perched at the water's edge to attract aquatic patronage.
There we had drinks and appetizers before paddling back through the darkening dusk, drifting along the halflit houseboats towards Seattle's twinkling cityscape.
Back at the dock we emptied the boards of air and dove back into the lake a few times to the sound of [my oldest playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/3922aHPz8rdcAWwPCM7qUM?si=0eaf8e9bfbe7483f) on my bluetooth speaker.
Everything sounds better in the dark.
Sound supplants sight as the main sensory input channel.
The sudden splash of water strikes the air like a crackling snare drum and even the howl and hiss of a deflating paddleboard seems to hold color.

### watching TV & movies

While in PEI, I started watching _Lost_, which is the alltime favorite of one of my friends, and Z started watching _Brooklyn 99_.
I'm not sure why, but, as I said about reading _A Pattern Language_, there is something pleasing about starting something new while on a trip away from home.
Change of routine feels right alongside a change of environment.

I started rewatching _Mad Men_.
This time I much more easily recognize Don Draper's extreme immaturity.
It hides so well behind his restrained eloquence and impressive jawline.
I also notice that Peter Campbell is offered as a character foil.
He's unsuave and unhandsome, but similarly insecure and helpless.
He's deeply envious, unaware that all the potency and respect that Don enjoys does nothing to salve the wounds that disfigure his hopeless self-image.

### coding

I did a bunch of work on this site!
These new features are in the spirit of the **dynamic** attribute of {% vbook_post virtual books | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %}.
(And they are the two features that I mentioned in {% vbook_post my previous update | 2024-07-07-now %}.)

I added modified dates to all posts as well as a way to sort posts by post date or modified date.
This discourages me from treating posts like static pieces and encourages me to edit, rework, and reimagine them.
I didn't want to be responsible for manually updating the modified date of a post, so I automated it.

For my first attempt at implementing it, I put together a plugin written in Ruby (mostly written by GitHub Copilot) that found the most recent commit's date for each post by looking through the Git history.
It worked, but it also slowed down my local build a lot.
I found a much better solution: set up a git pre-commit hook that updates the `modified_date` in a post's frontmatter when a change is committed to it.
To implement sorting, I had to use JavaScript.
Working on a static website has made me appreciate how much is possible without JavaScript and what isn't.

More challenging to implement and more exciting to complete was a feature I'm calling Revisions, which shows past edits of select posts.
This one was even more important to automate.
Manually creating a revision for every new post would be a ponderous task that would deincentivize me from making changes.
Automatically generated revisions, on the other hand, excite me to make changes.
I want to see how posts change over time and how the converge to "final" form.

So, the main task was to plug into the Jekyll build to generate new pages that represent the difference between every pair of sequential commits in a post's Git history.
Once I had that, I just had to do some minor coding in HTML and Liquid to add links in a post's metadata to link to its revisions.

After I figured out how to get the full Git word diff between two commits (the `git` gem's API apparently doesn't expose this part of Git's functionality), most of the trouble had to do with formatting: stripping Git diff metadata, replacing diff markers with markdown formatting, transforming Markdown to HTML, and styling the HTML.
After I finally got it working locally, I pushed it up to GitHub to kick off the build and publish job.
But after the GitHub Actions finished, the site didn't look any different!

It took me a while to figure out why the GitHub Pages build was passing but not generating any revisions.
I figured the `git` gem wasn't being installed since it isn't in the list of packages supported by GitHub Pages.
It seemed like the plugin wasn't running at all.
Only after I added print statements to it did I realize that it _was_ running, but only finding a single commit.
Finally, I fixed it by setting the `fetch-depth` of the `checkout` action to a pseudoinfinite number so that the full Git history would get processed.

I set it up so I can easily enable or disable revisions for a post by setting `show_revisions` in its frontmatter.
So far, I've enabled revisions for {% vbook_post what makes a good shower? | 2024-08-30-good-shower %}, {% vbook_post how to think invisibly | 2021-02-01-think-invisibly %}, and {% vbook_post how to tell a story #3 | 2024-08-12-tell-a-story-3 %}.

---

### what's next?

We're going to Japan for two weeks over Xmas!
I've never been and I'm very excited to go.
I intend to spend time researching, planning, and learning about Japan over the next few months.

I expect to be promoted to Senior Software Engineer in December.
I should know by November.
We'll see.
I've been at Microsoft five years now, so I'm neither late nor early.

I'll be playing a lot of soccer over the next few months.
I hope that'll naturally help me resume weight loss.
I lost fifteen pounds in the latter half of last year and I've maintained since then.
I would still like to lose another twentyfive pounds.

I'll be watching every Arsenal game that I can.
They are widely recognized as contenders to win the league, even more so than they were a year ago.
It's exciting and unnerving.
The season is so long.

I'm overhauling Z's Vancouver apartment.
I changed the pendant light above the dinner table and I'm in the process of swapping the couch.
There are many more things I plan to do.
Replace the coffee table, install bedside wall lamps, hang up the TV, and make space for the practice drumkit Z intends to buy.
I'm motivated by my excitement.
If anything, it's hard to stop thinking about it.

Sadly, summer is over.
But I also love the fall.
I'm looking forward to the coziness that comes with it.
For me, September is a very nostalgic month.
The sudden turn in weather reminds me of the beginning of the school year, a time I found quietly thrilling, like the opening montage of a new season of a TV show.
