---
layout: post
title: what I'm doing now
permalink: /now-apr-23-2024
tags: journal
---

<!--more-->

### Life

My weight loss progress has stalled.
I'm 15lbs lighter than I was in June of last year but the red needle on my bathroom scale has been trembling at the same position for weeks.
I'm playing soccer twice a week now, but going on fewer walks.
I am mindful about what I eat, but I don't track it.
I said in my {% post_url_with_hover_card last update | 2024-02-19-now %} that I would try not finishing my serving just because it’s served, but even with the goal in mind I find it very difficult to do.
Years ago I saw an ad for a habit-focused weight loss app called Noom that said that finishing your plate is often an impulse ingrained in childhood.
I think that's true for me.
In any case, I suspect my biggest hurdle to further weight loss is snacking before bedtime.
I'd still like to lose another 25lbs, but I think I'm going to put it on the backburner for now.
Cruise until I catch a second wind.

Like I mentioned, I'm playing soccer twice a week.
7v7 games, mostly.
My cardio is not amazing, but definitely much better than it was at the start of the year.

I've gone snowboarding twice.
Finally!
Once at Cypress Mountain on a weekday evening and once at Mt Seymour on a weekend afternoon.
Both are within a thirty minute drive from Vancouver, which is incredible.
From Cypress there are stunning views of the city, the inlet, and the nearby islands.
The season is coming to an end but I'm hoping to go to Grouse Mountain soon, which is less than twenty minutes away from Vancouver.
Access to ski resorts in Vancouver is astounding.

Z and I have been {% post_url_with_hover_card exploring the neighborhoods | 2024-04-07-walk %} around us and loving it.
Occasionally I go for a long nighttime walk on my own, as I have done for years, and a recent one resulted in Z and I getting tickets to see {% post_url_with_hover_card Vieux Farka Touré | 2024-04-07-vieux-farka-toure %}.
It turned out to be one of the live music performances I've most enjoyed attending.

Z and I did a five week improv course in Vancouver.
We met some nice people and had a novel and interesting experience.
We think we might take standup comedy classes next.
Z is initiating these activities, but I'm happy to follow along.

### Travel

Z and I are going to Tofino for my mom's birthday in May and then to NYC a week later.

We recently stayed at a cabin on Lake Cavanaugh with friends.
We jumped in the water and it was freezing.
I'm very happy I did it though.

### Work

A couple weeks ago I silently celebrated my two year anniversary working on Microsoft Loop.
It's the longest I've worked on a single product or team and by far the one I've enjoyed the most.
The problems are interesting, the work is in line with my career interests, the product is exciting, the people are great, the work life balance is stellar.

Although I had a dip in motivation several weeks ago, I've been quite motivated recently.
Managing one's motivation is a nonobvious and little discussed but essential skill.
Over the years I've recognized it as such and tried to improve at it.

Tomorrow I'm giving a talk about rewriting history in Git.
I'm looking forward to it!

### Coding

I implemented hoverboxes on this site!
If you're on a computer, hover over {% post_url_with_hover_card this link | 2024-02-19-now %} and you'll see a preview of my previous 'now' update.
It was nontrivial but educational to implement.
I've always liked the idea of doing DIY.
Does this count?

I haven't worked on my app [**Muze Radio**](https://okjuan.me/muze-radio) for a couple months.
Spotify denied my request for an [extended quota](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/concepts/rate-limits), which would allow anyone with Spotify Premium to use it.
I addressed their silly reason and resubmitted the request.
That was well over six weeks ago, which is their expected turnaround time.
On the Spotify Dashboard, I see a message banner stating that _The review is taking longer than expected_.
Yeah, I know.
I suppose I can't be too annoyed though.
It's free.
Once they accept my request, I'll probably have motivation to resume work on my app.

### Reading

Listened to a good deal of Mary Norris's _Between Me and You: Confessions of a Comma Queen_.
I enjoyed the first bit, including the part about Ben Webster and the dictionary, which I found really interesting.
But my interest in the book began falling sharply with Norris's rants about the gender of pronouns and such.
I just didn't care.

_Room to Dream_, David Lynch's autiobiography-memoir.
A great read, especially as companion material to {% post_url_with_hover_card his | 2024-01-18-elephant-man %} {% post_url_with_hover_card movies| 2024-03-14-wild-at-heart %}.
I found it inspirational.
Not only is David Lynch an important artist, but also a good person.

_The Passenger_, which I read out of interest after reading {% post_url_with_hover_card Stella Maris | 2024-01-15-stella-maris %} and because I love {% post_url_with_hover_card how Cormac writes | 2024-03-25-write-like-cormac %}.

Some New Yorker articles, including one [on Female Violence](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2024/02/12/the-furies-by-elizabeth-flock-review-if-love-could-kill-by-anna-motz).

I sampled Temple Grandin's book about _Visual Thinking_, but I didn't have appetite for it.

I continue reading _The Death and Life of Great American Cities_, without haste.
I am trying to digest and {% post_url_with_hover_card apply | 2024-04-07-walk %} its ideas.

### Writing

I've been writing with some regularity.
Mostly, but not exclusively, [reviews](https://okjuan.me/vbook/tags/reviews/) and [journal entries](https://okjuan.me/vbook/tags/journal/).
I wrote {% post_url_with_hover_card part #2 | 2024-03-16-career-2 %} of {% post_url_with_hover_card my career| 2023-10-16-my-career %}, a project I'm excited to continue.

### TV

I keep watching Arsenal games and they keep winning.
Arteta is undeniably effective.
His decisions are questionable sometimes, but so far he has managed to produce answers for them.
Arsenal still has a chance at winning the English Premier League, but it isn't entirely up to them.
Everyone is thrilled to have three title contenders with only a handful of games left and nobody can predict who will win it.

I've also been working on the decor of our apartment.
I put up small floating shelves in our bedroom, which was intimidating because I had never before drilled holes for wall anchors.
Bought a rubber plant and a wall mirror for the plant corner in our living room.
Continually propagating my pothos snippings and planting them in nursery pots.
In addition to [Never Too Small](https://www.youtube.com/@nevertoosmall), which I've been watching for years now, I've started watching videos by [Noah Daniel](https://www.youtube.com/@noahdaniel.studio), a small new YouTuber who is an interior designer with a passion for [modern architecture](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Modern_architecture) and design.
It's been interesting.

_True Detective_ season 4, which had my attention at first, but then lost it.

_The Curse_.
Have only watched a couple episodes but I think it's so good.
Can't wait to keep watching.

_Veep_.
So funny.
Reminds me a lot of _Arrested Development_ and _Peep Show_, other shows written about pathetic characters with scathing comedy wit.
_The Other Two_ is similar.
I've been catching episodes of it here and there while Z watches it.

_The Office_ continues to be a go-to comfort show for me.
I have that strange but apparently common capacity to rewatch it endlessly.
I do the same with the [Ricky Gervais Show](https://open.spotify.com/show/34mXWuUCEa2UzTft5vxxLp?si=30f306edb2b04a6f), even though I think Ricky is a prat and his standup comedy unimaginative crap.

### Movies

{% post_url_with_hover_card Wild at Heart | 2024-03-14-dune-pt2 %}, which was a worthy Lynch work.

_The Zone of Interest_, which was stellar.

{% post_url_with_hover_card Dune Part 2 | 2024-03-14-dune-pt2 %} which was pretty much as good as a megablockbuster gets.

### What's next?

I have some interesting tasks at work right now.
Looking forward to seeing how those progress.

I'm looking forward to visiting Tofino and NYC.
Also looking forward to doing more outdoor activities with friends, like paddleboarding and playing volleyball.

I have tickets to see Nate Smith, Carrtoons, and Kiefer in Seattle in May.
Excited for it.
I'll update {% post_url_with_hover_card my concert log | 2024-02-25-concerts-log %} afterward, like I did for {% post_url_with_hover_card Hailu Mergia | 2024-04-06-hailu-mergia %}.

Excited but nervous about the last several EPL games.
It's going to be a huge disappointment if Arsenal don't win the title after such a fantastic season.

Z and I are developing new friendships in Vancouver.
Looking forward to forming a dynamic with a group of people like we have in Seattle.

As I write, I don't have substantial reading or writing goals.
At this point, I have developed both habits, so I expect them to carry me on for the next several weeks, at least.
