---
layout: post
title: nyc trip
permalink: /nyc-trip
tags: journal travel cities
---

During the week that Z & I were there, we saw friends, shopped, attended comedy & jazz shows, visited museums, drank lots of coffee, ate lots of pizza, walked, biked, rode the subway, took the ferry, and wondered where in the city we might want to live.

<!--more-->

#### Friday 05/17/2024 -- {% post_url_with_hover_card Bushwick | 2024-06-01-bushwick %}

- 9:30am flight SEA -> NYC
- Lyft from Newark to Bushwick airbnb
- food & drinks at Salud bar and resto
- comedy show @ Tiny Cupboard Comedy Club
- drinks + nachos + arcade games @ All Night Skate

Despite having arrived at the Airbnb at 9pm, tired after a long day of travel from Seattle, it was easy to have an eventful first night.
Within walking distance of the airbnb were plenty of bars, coffee shops, restaurants, convenience stores, and even a small comedy club.

#### Saturday 05/18/2024 -- {% post_url_with_hover_card Bushwick | 2024-06-01-bushwick %} & Greenwich Village

- 12pm coffee at Covert Coffee
- walk on Myrtle then Knickerbocker Ave
- came across singer songwriter at Crossroads Cafe
- browse 28 Scott Vintage; Z bought loafers, necklace, and ring
- pop into Urban Jungle AKA L Train Vintage across the street
- great cappuccino and tea @ SEY coffee
- great pizza for dinner @ Roberta’s
- mini-nap @ Bushwick airbnb
- train to Greenwich Village, walk, end up at St Tropez for drinks & appetizer
- Kurt Rosenwinkel @ Village Vanguard

Also within walking distance were subway stations for the J, L, A, & C lines, which made it easy to get around Brooklyn and into Manhattan on the two days following.
The Village Vanguard was well worth visiting.
Not only is it a historic jazz venue, but their minimum purchase is just one drink.

#### Sunday 05/19/2024 -- Fort Greene, Park Slope, and {% post_url_with_hover_card Bushwick | 2024-06-01-bushwick %}

- coffee at The Daily Press
- train to FreeFancy in Fort Greene for last Arsenal match of the year; bar was packed
- brunch @ Olea, on patio
- Hungry Ghost for cappuccino
- walk down 5th Ave in Park Slope: thrift & vintage stores; book shop; stumbled across 5th Ave Street Fair
- walked to G train to meet Brett but took wrong train, ended up in Manhattan; rerouted to Williamsburg easily enough though
- dinner at Limosneros in Williamsburg with our friend Brett, disappointing food and cocktails
- train back to Bushwick airbnb to rest
- meet our friends Eva, Vince, & Adi @ Tiny Cupboard Comedy Club
- drinks & shuffleboard @ The Evergreen, which was very quiet
- drinks @ Purgatory, a cool bar

Especially compared with the noisiness and grittiness of Bushwick, Fort Greene and Park Slope's tree-lined streets and brownstones were stunning.
The affluence of this part of Brooklyn is obvious.
Its peace and prettiness, however, comes at the cost of Bushwick's personality.

#### Monday 05/20/2024 -- {% post_url_with_hover_card Bushwick | 2024-06-01-bushwick %} & Astoria

- checked out of Bushwick airbnb @ 11am
- coffee @ Covert again
- lyft to Brett’s in Bushwick to drop off luggage and see his place; Eva, Vince, & Adi joined us there
- walk to The Bad Bagel for brunch
- Bushwick market, bought a chain
- good cappuccino @ Hala Coffee
- walk back to Brett’s; stop @ Lazy Suzy for good coffee
- go on rooftop of Brett’s apt blg, which was super cool
- say bye to Adi, drive with Eva and Vince to Astoria airbnb
- went for dinner @ Blue Sea Taverna
- walk back to Astoria airbnb, greet Z's friend Coco when she arrived

We knew Astoria was amongst the most diverse neighborhoods in the world, but we didn't know it was a Greektown of sorts.
It's better-looking than Bushwick.

#### Tuesday 05/21/2024 -- Astoria, SoHo, The High Line, & Bowery

- solo coffee @ Olive Coffee (decent cappuccino), Under Pressure Coffee (bad cappuccino), & finally Kinship (good cappuccino)
- met Eva, Vince, Coco, & Zyan at Astoria blvd station, then we trained to SoHo
- shopped at The ReShop & Classic Football Shirts pop-up shop
- browsed high end furniture @ Orior
- trained to Highline; got drinks and walked on Highline to Hudson Yards
- said goodbye to Eva & Vince
- dinner with friends @ Spicy Moon in Bowery
- good cocktails @ Banzarbar with Zyan and Coco
- train to Astoria airbnb

There wasn't as much to see in Astoria's center as I anticipated.
Shopping in SoHo, on the other hand, impressed me.
Highline was as pretty and as busy as I remember it.
Bowery has some good spots.

#### Wednesday 05/22/2024 -- Astoria, East River, FiDi, NoHo, Lower East Side, & Midtown

- solo coffee @ INFINITEA, good flat white and onigiri
- accompanied Z & Coco while they ate @ BZ Grill
- walked to Astoria terminal and took ferry to Wall St
- coffee @ Black Fox
- Coco went to Brooklyn Bridge on her own; Z and I trained to Noho, looked at stores on our own: Adidas, Sabah, Dashwood Books, modernlink danish furniture store
- I walked alone through Lower East side
- we ate dinner at Fish Cheeks at a terrace table in the cobblestone street
- trained to Times Square for Wicked musical @ Gershwin Theatre
- trained to Astoria, walked on Broadway, got slices @ Champion Pizza
- trained back to airbnb

The ferry was great.
Cheap, easy, and quiet.
The view were great and various.
In FiDi I was shocked at the quantity of tourists.
We only went there because it was the ferry's terminus, but it was interesting to see it after reading Jane Jacobs's critique of it in {% post_url_with_hover_card The Death & Life of Great American Cities | 2024-04-07-walk %} and The New Yorker's [recent article](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2024/05/06/can-turning-office-towers-into-apartments-save-downtowns) about the conversion of Wall Street office towers to apartment buildings.

The Lower East Side was charming and eating there was memorable, but the food was pricey.
Wicked too was pricey but also as good as I remember it being when I first saw it fifteen years ago.
At night we explored Astoria some more, but still did not feel inspired by it.

#### Thursday 05/23/2024 -- Astoria, Midtown, Greenwich Village

- solo coffee @ INFINITEA again
- train to manhattan with Z & Coco
- cappuccino @ Inés
- MoMA
- lunch @ La Esquina nearby
- flat white @ Partner Coffee
- MoMA again
- train to Greenwich Village for Terrace Martin & James Fauntleroy show @ Blue Note
- cocktails at Maestro Pasta nearby
- slices from Percy's pizza
- train to Astoria airbnb

Revisited INFINITEA and sat again at the table on the sidewalk, looking out on to the street.
A delightful way to start the day.
I'm glad I went to the MoMA while Z & Coco went to the Met.
I love walking around museums alone, listening to my music.
This time it occurred to me to leave after a couple hours, have a meal and a coffee, and come back.
I think I'll be adding that to my museum routine.
Several restaurants in the area give a discount if you show them your MoMA ticket.
Compared to The Village Vanguard, {% post_url_with_hover_card The Blue Note | 2024-06-04-blue-note %} was a bit embarrassing.

#### Friday 05/24/2024 -- Astoria, SoHo, Tribeca, Hudson River Greenway, Greenwich Village

- solo coffee @ INFINITEA again
- train with Z to SoHo
- bought patchworked Carhartt jacket @ The Reshop
- met up with Z, Coco, & Thomas @ Canal Market, where I had a burrito & cappuccino
- visit Classic Football Shirts pop-up shop again
- walk to Tribeca
- solo train back to SoHo to pick up jacket
- solo beer on covered patio @ Toad Hall
- train to meet up with Z, Coco, & Thomas
- free friday admission to Whitney Museum
- walk south along the water while the sun set
- dinner @ Jajaja vegan Mexican resto with friends
- 10:45pm show @ Comedy Cellar
- train back to Astoria airbnb

#### Saturday 05/25/2024 -- Astoria & Ditmars Steinway

- solo coffee @ INFINITEA again
- brunch @ Anassa Taverna
- solo walk to Ditmars Steinway
- good cappuccino @ Mighty Oak Roasters
- continue solo walk through Ditmars Steinway
- met up with Z, Coco, & Thomas for ice cream @ Van Leeuwen
- ride citi bikes down to Astoria Park, along water, and back to Astoria airbnb
- take train + LIRR + Airtrain to JFK