---
modified_date: 2024-12-01
layout: post
title: "what is this site? #3"
permalink: /what-3
tags: notes writing mediums books software
---

I anticipate confusion regarding the name of this site.
How is it a book?
<!--more-->
Sure, it abides by the criteria of a socalled {% vbook_post virtual book | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %} -- multimedia, readerdriven, nonlinear, etc -- but it's still basically just a blog, isn't it?

Granted, this is not a book.
Not yet.
But over time, it may become one.
In fact I hope it will become multiple, overlapping books.
I intend to accumulate relevant and complementary content without prescribing a single vision or intention for it so that it can take a shape of its own.
_Shapes_ of its own.
At points in the future I may be able to collect multiple pieces into discrete, booklike forms.

It's been two years since I began this project and already emerging are various potential booklike projects.
An obvious one is compiling posts from a title series like {% vbook_post _how to revise a sentence_ | 2023-05-09-revise-a-sentence %}, {% vbook_post <em>#2</em> | 2023-06-05-revise-a-sentence-2 %}, {% vbook_post <em>#3</em> | 2024-10-12-revise-a-sentence-3 %}, {% vbook_post <em>#4</em> | 2024-11-28-revise-a-sentence-4 %}, and so on, into a single work.
The same for {% vbook_post _how to tell a story_ | 2022-06-11-tell-a-story %}, {% vbook_post <em>#2</em> | 2022-06-11-tell-a-story-2 %}, {% vbook_post <em>#3</em> | 2024-08-12-tell-a-story-3 %}, and future entries.
These titles are intentionally broad so they can hold a variety of perspectives pursuing the topic in different directions so that the entries may later be combined to serve unforeseen ends.
I expect that any attempts I make to assemble multiple pieces into a whole will prompt me to explain the construction through writing that in turn naturally becomes part of that new whole.

But that's only one way in which I want "books" to develop from this site.
I also want them to sprout organically from the haphazard crosspollination of ideas that features like tagging and backlinking enable.
I recently implemented another feature called revisions -- which I talked about in my Sept 30th 2024 {% vbook_post /now | 2024-09-30-now %} update -- that adds yet another dimension through which a reader (including myself) can traverse the content on this site.
Automation is a powerful way to highlight implicit relationships that already exist between pieces.
They enable unplanned connections to grow across topics and time.
The next feature I intend to automate is creation of links between posts in a title series.

It's fitting that this site itself is the fusion product of {% vbook_post various heterogenous inspirations | 2023-02-25-come.up.with.ideas %}.
As I've said before, the [Zettelkasten method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zettelkasten) of knowledge management is one of them.
The method, as noted by researcher Andy Matuschak on his own [Zettelkasten-inspired website](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/zDcuS8A5uxGR8hQygsqP83A), enabled Germany sociologist Niklas Luhmann to publish more than 70 books.
My writing ambitions are far more modest, but I am interested in adapting the method as a way of more directly writing "books" instead of amassing research that may then be more laboriously synthesized and translated into prose.
I want to _start_ by writing in small chunks and see if the resulting pieces can themselves comprise a booklike thing.

And yet the point of this site is not to become a book but to provide booklike experiences {% vbook_post without subjecting itself to the traditional limits | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %} of a book.
The point is not merely to create books through piecemeal writing, but also to offer pieces by themselves and as an assortment of nonlinear orderings, unlike the single, linear monolithic offering of the traditional book.
This site is not just a means but an end itself.

Finally, I use the term virtual book because I wish to reimagine and expand the idea of a book, not to replace it.
The book is a wonderful thing and a technology of its own.
Books have changed my life for the better and I'd like to return the favor.
