---
layout: post
title: the blue note
permalink: /blue-note
tags: journal live-music nyc
---

Compared to The Village Vanguard, The Blue Note was a bit embarrassing.
<!--more-->
Doors open two hours before showtime, giving guests ample time to meet their $20 minimum.
Accordingly, we showed up with plenty of time to have dinner before the show.
However, after we wriggled and hopscotched into seats at the claustrophobically crammed tables, we found out that the main dishes themselves -- and even some appetizers -- start at $20 and reach comfortably past the upper $30s.
(As I write this and look on The Blue Note's website to check my memory, I notice the online menu omits the prices.)
With more than an hour until showtime, we decided Z and Coco would go out for food elsewhere in Greenwich Village and I would stay and have dinner there.

A few minutes before showtime, I went upstairs to the bathroom and stumbled upon a gift shop.
Of course.
On the way back to my seat, I overheard a conversation at the till.
_Your total is $75._
After a short silence, during which, I presume, the customer looked down at the two items on the counter, blinked, and looked back up: _How much is each item?_

At least the show was good.
The drummer, who apparently tours with Alicia Keys, was amazing.
Gleefully he battered the kit with urgency unabating as if he were Tom and the groove Jerry.
Between songs, Terrace took his time telling stories and teasing his bandmates.
Halfway through the set, he announced his guest, whose name might not ring many bells, but has been inscribed on several Grammies: James Fauntleroy.
For two people in the audience the name rang not a bell but a gong, and when Terrace hesitated during the introduction, one of them cried out _The GOAT!_.
Out shuffled a man befitting the description of all-but-pop-star: a short, chubby man wearing thick-framed glasses, a hawaiian shirt, and striped jogging pants.