---
modified_date: 2025-02-10
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #5"
permalink: /now-july-7-2024
tags: journal
---

I've been traveling, furnishing, reading, writing, and more.

<!--more-->

### interior design

An odd perk of splitting my time between Seattle and Vancouver has been furnishing and decorating a second apartment, a task for which I have enough gusto to do twice over.
More than twice, actually.
I've starting telling friends that I would gladly help them lay out their spaces.
I told one friend in particular, who finds furnishing and decorating stultifying, that when he buys his house, I will invite myself over and personally hang the artwork and mirror that have been leaning against his apartment walls for years.
I routinely watch [Never Too Small](https://www.youtube.com/c/nevertoosmall) and [Noah Daniel](https://www.youtube.com/@noahdaniel.studio) and have been toying with the idea of making TikToks or Instagram reels about my amateur interest in interior design.
I already have the topic for the initial video: how to get cheap artwork that you love.

### lounging on the balcony

Among the finest decisions I've made recently is buying patio furniture for our balcony.
I bought it secondhand for $420 USD ($575 CAD), delivery included, and within a week have spent many more minutes (in either currency) lounging, reading, writing, and working on it.
I expect to recoup a good deal of the principal when we resell in a year or two.

By furnishing the balcony we've added to our apartment a whole new space to be in.
It's like a tree house, perched up among a variety of leafy growth.
Beyond the branches, in the evenings, lays the orange pink sunset silhouetting cranes on the port and past them the city skyline.
It reminds me of this bit from Gail Sheehy's memoir:

> I had found a rent-stabilized apartment on Fifth Avenue, near the Metropolitan Museum of Art... It had a terrace overlooking Central Park. A small glass cubicle sat on one end of the terrace, where I wrote as if suspended in the sky. I could watch the leaves turn from scarlet to lemony pale and sit snug in a winter storm like being enclosed in a snow globe. It was as close to a writer's heaven as one could get.
>
>  Unheated, the cubicle was also ideally suited to keeping the neurons jumping. In winter I typed in a hoodie, my feet encased in Alaskan mukluks. In spring, the terrace became my first garden. I filled the window boxes with swaying tulips. Tubs held bonsai mimosa trees and dwarf crabapple trees that bore fruit in the fall. It was a magical place to invite friends for drinks and outdoor supper.

My alcove is more modest, but magical still.
A private little post embedded in the city.
A perfect place to read and write.

### reading

I've been sitting out on the balcony with a little stack of books and {% vbook_post taking turns with each one | 2024-07-07-read-many-books %}.

### thinking about ego and masculinity

I think the ongoing masculinity crisis can be understood as a {% vbook_post confused struggle for self-esteem | 2024-07-04-be-a-man %}.

### writing

Most of what I've {% vbook_post written | 2024-06-04-blue-note %} {% vbook_post recently | 2024-06-01-bushwick %} has to do with New York, but I also finally wrote a review of {% vbook_post The Passenger | 2024-06-15-the-passenger %}, the first of Cormac McCarthy's last {% vbook_post two | 2024-01-15-stella-maris %} novels.
I also wrote a {% vbook_post fourth entry | 2024-07-03-coordinate-metaphors-4 %} in my series of _how to coordinate metaphors_.

### traveling

Z and I went to Tofino with my family for a week to celebrate my mom's birthday.
We spent time together, ate great meals, surfed on beautiful beaches, hung out at a wonderful airbnb near the heart of town, spent a day in an [outdoor spa in a private cove](https://www.moonjellyspa.ca/) lounging in hot tubs filled with seaweed, and even [saw the Northern Lights](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/May_2024_solar_storms).
Z and I want to go back.

A week later, Z and I went to {% vbook_post NYC | 2024-05-26-nyc-trip %} to affirm our suspicion that we would like to live there before we have kids.
I have a bad habit of winging trips, but in the month leading up to this one I dedicated good hours to research and planning.
The time spent was well worth it, rendering some of the most memorable experiences of the trip: Comedy Cellar, Village Vanguard, {% vbook_post Blue Note | 2024-06-04-blue-note %}, Whitney Museum (for free), Tiny Cupboard Comedy Club, Roberta's, and SEY coffee.
Some of these I booked in advance, and the others I was aware of and pounced on when the opportunity arose.

We recently also spent a weekend with friends at an airbnb in Lake Cowichan.
The weather was a bit disappointing, but we had a great time hanging out in and around the hot tub.

### working

I've delivered some good results at work recently.
My tasks continue to be interesting and plenty.
However, it looks like my next promotion, which I was expecting in September, won't happen until December.
I'm disappointed, but when I reflect on it carefully, I notice it's not that important.
By no means do I _need_ to be promoted.
It's alluring because it's a quantifiable and salient achievement.
But it's not important one.

### coding

Spotify again rejected my request for an extended quota.
I emailed them back asking to speak to a real person.
No response.
It looks like it's going to be difficult to make [my app](https://okjuan.me/muze-radio/) available to all Spotify premium users, unfortunately.
That project will sit on the backburner for a while.

As for my other recent programming project -- this site -- I have some interesting new ideas.
To encourage myself to {% vbook_post revise and rework posted pieces | 2024-04-25-what-2 %}, I want to re-order posts by their most recently edited date rather than their original publish date.
That way, I could breathe new life into old ideas that I failed to do justice on initial attempt and baptize them again as new pieces.
This aligns with the **dynamic** aspect of my {% vbook_post virtual book | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %} idea.
A related idea I have for this site is to let (hypothetical) readers see past versions of each post, in the spirit of what I wrote in my essay {% vbook_post The Virtual Book | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %} last year:

> What if a memoirist publishes a piece overlaid with their revisions to show the process of expression and expose the artifice of memoir?
> ...
> What if a novelist publishes a first-person novel in real time to make it feel like the character really exists and is experiencing events alongside the reader?
> What if the author then goes back and rewrites previous parts of the novel to show the decay of memory and its corruption in the construction of personal narratives?

One of my core interests, and one of the core passions behind this site, is the process of writing.
Interfaces that illuminate and accentuate that process intrigue me.

### watching TV

**Peep Show**.
Second watch.
So funny.

**Curb Your Enthusiasm**.
Hilarious.
Like **Peep Show**, soothing with its insanity.

**Baby Reindeer**, which was haunting, disturbing, and fantastic.

**Welcome to Wrexham**.
S3 is less ambitious, but still good.

**House of the Dragon**.
Good {% vbook_post not great | 2024-08-12-tell-a-story-3 %}.
Rewatched S1 in preparation for S2, which is currently airing.

**Fantasmas**.
Unsettling in a very effective way, like a hyper-pop Black Mirror.
Wonderfully weird and delightfully non-linear.
By now I know I am a sucker for tangential and episodic storytelling.

### watching movies

**Dream Scenario**.
Unsettling.
I kept oscillating between sympathy and disgust for the main character, an intended effect, I think.
However, ultimately, it didn't seem to have a cogent point to make.
Or maybe I missed it.

**Challengers**.
Very entertaining.
I loved the toxic triangle between the three main characters: one chooses to be dominated, one needs to dominate, and one dominates himself to preclude others doing it.
The codependence and power dynamics rang true until they fell a bit flat towards the end.

**Radical Wolfe**, documentary about writer Tom Wolfe (and former colleague of Gloria Steinem at _New York_ magazine).
Somewhat entertaining but suspiciously uncritical, as biopics and posthumous documentary tributes tend to be.

---

### what's next?

Enjoying the rare and splendid sunny days of PNW summer.
Biking, paddleboarding, playing soccer, volleyball with friends.

I'm curious about playing goalkeeper for a new team.
I've been an outfield player exclusively for years, but I used to play goalie part-time and fill in when needed.
I miss it a bit.
And goalies are always in demand, so it should be an easy way to get more playing time.
Hopefully I'm not overestimating my skills in net.
I think I'll find out soon.

Cap Hill Block Party.
Excited about seeing Chappell Roan, who is apparently great to see live.

Visit PEI, before Z's mom and stepdad sell the house they have on the beach there.
