---
modified_date: 2024-12-01
layout: post
title: "what is this site? #4"
permalink: /what-4
tags: notes books software
---

Writing {% vbook_post <em>what is this site? #3</em> | 2024-11-29-what-3 %} made me think about how this site reimagines _the process_ of writing books to emulate the process of software development.
<!--more-->
This subtle point is most concisely represented by the fact that I'm developing this site _as a prototype_ of a virtual book.
Software prototypes serve, among other purposes, to explore the viability and value of an idea by developing a minimal version of it.
This site is one such experiment.
The development of the idea of a virtual book through its implementation.

The more I reflect on it, the more I notice how my development of this "virtual book" is informed by principles of software development.
I am writing it as selfcontained [modules](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modular_programming) of prose that can be referenced and even imported into one another thanks to the hoverbox feature I implemented {% vbook_post earlier this year | 2024-04-23-now %}.
(Hover over that last link with your mouse, if you're on desktop.)
I am [continuously developing and publishing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration) this site so that it is "complete" after every iterative addition I make to it despite despite my intention to make many more changes in the future.
It is never incomplete nor is it ever finished.
Once {% vbook_post again | 2023-12-24-now %}, I am reminded of the concept of [Skateboard, Bike, Car](https://awilkinson.medium.com/skateboard-bike-car-6bec841ed96e).

The word _virtual_ in "virtual book" hints at this relationship without requiring it.
I {% vbook_post define virtual books | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %} without requiring that they use or be software, but this instantiation depends on both software and on the ways it is developed.