---
modified_date: 2025-02-10
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #8"
permalink: /now-jan-22-2025
tags: journal
---

Enjoying stillness, listening to Harold Bloom interviews, watching movies, and experimenting with routines.
<!--more-->

### enjoying stillness

Despite the fact I've only {% vbook_post partially | 2020-01-12-ditch-books %} read [_The Listening Book_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13136146-the-listening-book) and {% vbook_post _The End of Absence_ | 2024-08-11-end-of-absence %}, and despite my criticism of the latter, both books helped me better savor moments of quiet and stillness.
One of my favorite things to do right now is to take a hot, silent shower and put on the vintage [_yukata_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yukata) I recently bought {% vbook_post in Japan | 2024-12-26-japan-trip %}.
In my new cotton robe I move slowly around the apartment and touch things lightly as if trying not to wake someone up.
The silence is exquisite.

It's strangely soothing to say nothing for a time.
Z and I sometimes practice this in the car without prior agreement.
The longer we go without saying anything, the more peaceful we feel.
I think it is possible outside of regimented meditation to reap some of its benefits by foregoing habitual self-stimulation like chatting and listening to music to make space for felt moments of clarity.
In modern life we routinely cover up the mysteriously powerful sensations our bodies are capable of generating when idle and we therefore miss out on the cathartic experience of allowing those sensations to come to the front of our awareness.

In retrospect this is something I've been learning to do over the last few years.
In 2020 I started going on runs through my neighborhood in Capitol Hill, Seattle and instead of listening to music I listened to the sound of my body striding through the unusually quiet streets of the early Covid pandemic, revelling in the unexpectedly sunny spring of that strange year.
Birds, wind, chatter, and from balconies clapping of hands and ringing of bells to thank the work of medical professionals across the globe.

### listening to Harold Bloom interviews

I first encountered Harold Bloom through his words on the back cover of Cormac McCarthy's masterpiece:
> _Blood Meridian_...seems to me clearly the major esthetic achievement of any living American writer.

His choice of the word _esthetic_ piqued my interest because it was precisely the esthetic of McCarthy's writing that had grabbed my attention one evening almost three years ago when I opened {% vbook_post _The Road_ | 2022-05-29-the-road %} to its hundredth page and found I couldn't put it down.
I owe [Ford Madox Ford](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/14417-open-the-book-to-page-ninety-nine-and-read-and-the) for encouraging the whim:

> Open the book to page ninety-nine and read, and the quality of the whole will be revealed to you.

For more than a year now I've been reading _Blood Meridian_ in bursts and every time I pick it back up I find myself listening to more interviews of Harold Bloom.
I feel inspired and challenged by his devotion to literature and insistence on copious reading and re-reading.
I am wary of the reactionary conservatism of which he has been accused, but have so far found his perspectives very thoughtprovoking.

### watching movies

I recently watched [_The Brutalist_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Brutalist).
It was good but disturbing.
It had some themes in common with [_Nosferatu_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nosferatu_(2024_film)), which I also watched recently and really enjoyed.
I thought the acting, the visuals, and the writing were all very good.
It is the first Robert Eggers film I've seen and I'm sure it won't be the last.
I also recently watched [_Panic Room_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panic_Room).
I thought it was pretty good, but the more I think about {% vbook_post how it handled themes of race and class | 2025-01-27-panic-room %} the more uncomfortable I feel about it.

### experimenting with routines

I continue trying to wake up early and start the day with a walk through the neighborhood.
The quiet and freshness of morning is special.
I hope to make it a habit.
I think it would transform not only my daily life but it entire.

Another small change I am trying is to write my [/now]({{site.baseurl}}/now) update more regularly.
Usually I post one every few months.
I wrote this one less than two weeks after the {% vbook_post previous one | 2025-01-11-now %}.
To achieve this, I'm trying to write the whole update in one sitting and this is the second time I've done it.

And, as cheesy as it might sound, to promote my goal to work, read, exercise, write, enjoy, grow, discuss, plan, and socialize everyday, I've put those nine words on my phone's lock screen.

---

### what's next?

I'm playing soccer once a week but trying to play more.

Z and I are going snowboarding with friends soon.

I've been in a {% vbook_post mood for producing | 2023-11-30-chart-moods %} but I intend to get back to reading in the next few days.

Despite all the movies I've watched recently, I still have appetite for more.
Lynch's recent passing is already making some of my friends more interested in watching his films and I intend to take advantage of that fact.
