---
modified_date: 2025-02-01
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #9"
permalink: /now-feb-1-2025
tags: journal
---

Biking around East Vancouver, reading _The Ginger Man_, finding Z a new apartment, and trying to become a planner.
<!--more-->

### biking around East Vancouver

Biking is a great way to achieve my daily goal of exercising.
Seattle is prohibitively hilly but Vancouver has a great network of bike routes allocated on streets with sparse car traffic.
They have a detailed PDF file available online that maps their location and marks them with useful information like incline and degree of separation from car traffic.
I came up with a great acronym to remember the street names of the main bike routes in the area: W.A.L.K.

### reading _The Ginger Man_

I bought a copy last summer and finally started it last week.
I can see why Cormac McCarthy liked it.
It also reminds me a lot of _Fear and Loathing in Last Vegas_.
After finishing the seventh chapter I sat down and wrote an {% vbook_post initial review | 2025-01-28-the-ginger-man %} of it.

### finding Z a new apartment

Z's apartment in Vancouver is a spacious one bedroom with a generous balcony.
It is recently renovated with tons of integrated storage but it lacks a crucial feature: a second bedroom.
I spend a lot of time at Z's place and when I do we often both work from home.
We have comfortable workstations at opposite corners of the living room but the distance does little when one of us actively participates in a virtual meeting.
Noisecancelling headphones help but they also encourage us to speak loudly.
And even when we both work silently it's too easy to call out across the room to ask a question, share a thought, or make a comment.
Both of us have a habit of voicing things soon after they occur to us.
It makes for interesting conversation and for a disruptive remote work environment.

We've been keeping an eye out and finally we found a good two bedroom apartment in a lively, artsy part of East Vancouver.
It costs almost the same as Z's current place and it offers great physical separation between the two bedrooms.
We will be sad to leave Z's current place and the neighborhood it's in, but we're excited for the new chapter.

### trying to become a planner

I don't mean a city planner.
Although I do fantasize about getting involved with municipal politics later in my life.

I mean I am trying to get better at making and adhering to plans in general.
I get a lot of stuff done in my life through what I call {% vbook_post coherent impulses | 2023-01-28-progress-without-planning %}, which have proved effective but lack certain special powers particular to planning.
I've been ruminating on it and noticing when people make reference to it in their way of working.

Kiefer mentioned in his [_Approachable Music_](https://open.spotify.com/show/2d0fpifQoLn230QaGjrW7w?si=c4dc3ff353e74c77) podcast that he keeps a to-do list and his daily routine centers on attending to it.
I assume many people follow this approach but I don't.
I keep to-do lists but my adherance to them is erratic.
I suppose part of the problem is that many items have no inherent deadline and even those that do don't threaten much consequence.
If I for example neglect to plan an itinerary for a trip, I can still show up and improvise as long as my flights and hotel are booked.
Without a doubt I miss out on things that require research or scheduling, but I still enjoy the fruits of spontaneity and just-in-time internet searches.
I want to reduce the losses and reduce the stress of having flying by the seat of my pants all the time.
I want to change my habit.
So I'm trying to consciously draw my attention to the benefits and override the anxious avoidance that thwarts my planning impulses.

Jared Henderson, a former professor and literary YouTuber, [mentioned](https://youtu.be/5rrJ6RReYnA?si=sHhJhHoCTYPCjJfk) that he keeps a list of books he will read.
I do too but I rarely reference it when deciding which book to read next.
My methods are spontaneous and informally organized.
I try out audiobooks on Spotify and Libby and continue only if they stick.
I buy books impulsively and add them to my growing library of unreads.

So I'm experimenting with writing a list of books I intend to read this year.
In a way, my dabbling with planning in this way is a sort of coherent impulse.
The coherence comes from the deliberate intention to exploit the benefits of forethought and the impulse is the list of fifteen or so books I slashed out based on my current appetite and the current contents of my shelves.

---

### what's next?

Keep biking.
Continue striving to do every day each of the following: work, read, exercise, write, enjoy, grow, discuss, plan, and socialize

Finalize Z's moving plans.

Go snowboarding with Z multiple times.

Read the rest of _The Ginger Man_ to keep up a good reading pace for the year.
After I finish it I will start _Malone Dies_ unless it doesn't {% vbook_post suit my appetite | 2023-01-28-progress-without-planning %}, in which case I will pick up one of the other books on my list for 2025.