---
modified_date: 2025-02-10
layout: post
title: "what I am doing in 2025"
permalink: /2025
tags: journal writing mediums
---

This live journal is yet another experiment inspired by the ideas I originally explored in my essay [_The Virtual Book_](https://okjuan.medium.com/the-virtual-book-part-1-782ccd4cc360).
<!--more-->
One of the attributes of "{% vbook_post virtual books | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %}" that most intrigues me is their **dynamism**, the fact that they can change over time.
It excites me not because of its practicality, but because of the artistic possibilities it creates.
As I wrote originally in _The Virtual Book_ and then reproduced in {% vbook_post one | 2022-06-11-show-instead-of-telling %} of its separated pieces on this site:

> What if a memoirist publishes a piece overlaid with their revisions to show the process of expression and expose the artifice of memoir?
> Or what if an English professor does the same to compare writing styles and the emotions they convey?
> What if a novelist publishes a first-person novel in real time to make it feel like the character really exists and is experiencing events alongside the reader?
> What if the author then goes back and rewrites previous parts of the novel to show the decay of memory and its corruption in the construction of personal narratives?

In this journal I intend to do something like the hypothetical memoirist.
Throughout the year, whenever I feel so inclined, I will write here about events that might happen, are happening, or have happened in 2025.
I think it will be interesting to juxtapose my expectations, experiences, and reflections throughout the year.
I hope it will neutralize the bias we typically grant hindsight, which is a privileged perspective but not a consummate one.

### January

_January 18 2024_ –
Winter in the PNW has been unusually dry and sunny.
It's beautiful, and joyful if you don't stop to think about the disastrous climactic changes it might portend.

### February

_January 18 2024_ –
In early February we have a couple plans for gatherings with friends.
We also intend to visit Victoria.
I look forward to it.
I'm realizing I have a positive association with February.
Perhaps because it's the month when we usually get snow in the PNW and for a couple days our surroundings are awash in white and sunshine.

_February 4 2024_ –
As foretold the annual snowdump came down in February, this time on the very first evening of the month.
For people like me that rely on outdoor sports like soccer and biking for exercise it's rather inconvenient but that inconvenience is more than repaid in stunning views of snowcovered mountains looming above the clouds, lit in the early sunset.
Not to mention the ease with which one could drive up one of those mountains for a weekday evening of skiing.
Diligently the neighborhood character that in the spring and summer tends to the garden in the nearby rotunda today scrapes off the snow from a sidewalk path and peppers blue salt into the gash of concrete as if to cauterize it.
I greet him and he responds with a grin _Living the dream!_
On the roads his mechanized counterpart heaves aside large mounds of snow effortlessly with its front and from its back showers its trail with salt.
I walk ten minutes to one of the sushi restaurants in the area to pick up my lunch.
Too hungry to wait until I get home I pause and stand beneath the awning outside the restaurant and drink my miso soup and watch the neighborhood go on without me on its natural rhythm.

### March

_February 4 2024_ –
I have loose plans to watch _Mickey 17_ with friends when it comes out in theaters.
It was written and directed by Bong Joon-Ho, who directed and cowrote the magnificent [_Parasite_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parasite_(2019_film)).

### April

### May

_February 4 2024_ –
May is the month the European soccer season climaxes.
League and cup winners alike are crowned.
Arsenal, the team I support, are still in the running for two major honors: the English Premier League (EPL) and the UEFA Champions League.
Two days ago they defeated the reigning EPL champions by a whopping and unforeseeable 5-1 scoreline.
And yet our biggest competitor this season is not them, but Liverpool, who are six points ahead of us with a game in hand.
In early May, Arsenal will go to northern England and duel them at Anfield, Liverpool's fortress.
_That_ will probably be Arsenal's biggest match of the season.
I start to feel a bit queasy thinking about it now, three months ahead.
It's shocking how thrilling it is even from a thousands of miles away to support a sports team embroiled in genuine competition.

### June

### July

### August

### September

### October

### November

### December

_February 4 2024_ –
In the spirit of living with forethought and premeditation, I suggested to my mom that we begin planning a post-Christmas trip to Mexico or Guatemala, somewhere warm.
In years past I've intended to buy flights for the holiday season months in advance but never managed it.
Hopefully this year.