---
modified_date: 2025-01-14
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #7"
permalink: /now-jan-11-2025
tags: journal
---

Missing Japan, losing weight, experimenting with daily routines, & more.
<!--more-->

### missing japan

We just got back {% vbook_post from Japan | 2024-12-26-japan-trip %}.
I would love to live there for a while someday, although I think it unlikely, even though they offer a six month Digital Nomad visa.
Z's work is not remote and she wants to develop her career, so teaching English or something of the sort is not particularly useful to her.
Regardless, I am sure we will visit again.

### losing weight

I am twenty pounds lighter than I was a year and a half ago.
I still want to lose another twenty.
I am trying to eat very consciously and exercise everyday.
I feel optimistic.

### experimenting with daily routines

For the last few days I have woken up early and immediately gone out on a walk with my coffee.
It's a lovely way to warm up for the day and start by accomplishing my daily task of exercising.
Walking is useful for me given that I am a homebody with a remote computer job and a reliance on soccer for exercise.
After returning from my morning walks I've spent some time reading before getting on with my day.
An aspiration I've set for myself is to do each of these everyday: exercise, read, write, work, enjoy, socialize, discuss, grow, & plan.
I realize they might sound cheesy, but they are distillations of more specific intentions I have for 2025.

### working

In December I received my expected promotion to Senior Software Engineer.
It's a milestone in my career.
The pay bump was nice if modest for industry standards, but the biggest perk is the deference I am already getting as part of the increase in my responsibilities.
I have strong opinions on how certain things should be done and I feel already a boost in persuasive power generated from my new title.
To summarize, I feel like I have more agency, and I welcome it.

### reading, writing, and avoiding distractions

Matthew B. Crawford's {% vbook_post _The World Beyond Your Head_ | 2024-12-07-world-beyond-your-head %} has provoked in me a lot of reflection about what things consume my attention and how {% vbook_post environ| 2024-12-15-ecologies-of-attention %}{% vbook_post ments | 2024-12-15-ecologies-of-attention %} dictate that.

I recently read {% vbook_post _Molloy_ | 2024-12-19-molloy %} by Samuel Beckett and I intend to continue with the second book in the trilogy.

I also resumed reading and marveling at the prose in _Blood Meridian_.
I think it appropriate to take my time with what Harold Bloom called  "the major esthetic achievement of any living American writer."
Of course, McCarthy has since died and his legacy has begun morphing due to recent news of a very inappropriate relationship he had with a teenage girl named Augusta Britt.

### watching movies

Last year as soon as the weather started cooling and days darkening early I started watching movies.
In the last few months I've watched _The Substance_, _Woman of the Hour_, _We Live In Time_, _The Godfather_ and _The Godfather Part 2_, _The Power of the Dog_, _Killers of the Flower Moon_, _Anora_, _A Real Pain_, _Perfect Days_, _Gladiator II_, and _Punch-Drunk Love_.
Reviews and ratings for these are or will be on [my letterboxd account](https://letterboxd.com/okjuanito/films/reviews/).
Tomorrow I'm going to watch _The Brutalist_.

### following Arsenal

Following the English Premier League is so interesting because the competition is so fierce and sophisticated.
It is so difficult for teams to win.
It is so difficult for fans or pundits to predict what will happen.
New players arrive, old ones fall away, young ones rise into prominence.
It's a lucrative business but it is also genuine, gripping drama.

---

### what's next?

The year 2025 is a blank canvas.
We don't have any specific plans.
Of course, it is predictable in some ways.
But perhaps more so, it is open ended.

I begin the year with several intentions.
Do big things at work.
Get fitter.
Lose twenty pounds.
Have more discussions with friends.
Read copiously.
Keep writing for and developing this site.
Nurture friendships.
Heal and grow.
Enjoy our DINK status.
Ruminate on longterm plans.

---

I round the corner of another year with the intention to change my life.
Change it not majorly, but minorly.
I intend to live in the same place, work the same job, drink the same coffee, live with my same wife.
But I want to sharpen my focus.
I intend to withhold my attention a bit more and marshall it with more discipline towards things that matter.
That doesn't mean I will scold myself if I waste time, or spend it on unimportant things.
But I want to try everyday to dedicate _more_ attention to things that matter, to things that will accumulate rather than disappear into the void like jewlery into the drain.

I will continue resisting idealistic aspirations towards abstract virtue, but will try to submit myself to disciplines that I trust will render concrete results.
Spending more time reading.
Waking earlier.
Avoiding cheap distractions that undermine opportunities to spend time meaningfully.
I'm not so interested in deeming time spent scrolling on instagram or passively consuming recommended YouTube videos as immoral.
It is not bad to produce nothing or learn nothing for a few minutes on a random day, but it is costly to let it become a habit.
Costly in time and in opportunity.
I don't believe I'm particularly special but I do think there is a version of me at eightysomething years old that looks back with some sastifaction at his life's work.
I want to do something meaningful and I know the steady progress of minutes hours and days can lead to things that irregular bouts of inspiration can imagine but never produce.

