---
layout: post
title: what I'm doing now
permalink: /now-apr-07-2024
tags: journal
---

<!--more-->

### Life

My weight loss progressed has stalled.
I'm 15lbs lighter than I was in June of last year but the red needle on my bathroom scale has been trembling at the same position for weeks.
I'm playing soccer twice a week now, but going on fewer walks.
I am mindful about what I eat, but I don't track it.
I said in my {% post_url_with_hover_card last update | 2024-02-19-now %} that I would try not finishing my serving just because it’s served, but even with the goal in mind I find it very difficult to do.
Years ago I saw an ad for a habit-focused weight loss app called Noom that said that finishing your plate is often an impulse ingrained in childhood.
I think that's true for me.
In any case, I suspect my biggest hurdle to further weight loss is snacking before bedtime.
I'd still like to lose another 25lbs, but I think I'm going to put it on the backburner for now.
Cruise until I catch a second wind.

Like I mentioned, I'm playing soccer twice a week.
7v7 games, mostly.
My cardio is not amazing, but definitely much better than it was at the start of the year.

I've gone snowboarding twice.
Finally!
Once at Cypress Mountain on a weekday evening and once at Mt Seymour on a weekend afternoon.
Both are within a thirty minute drive from Vancouver, which is incredible.
The season is coming to an end but I'm hoping to go to Grouse Mountain soon, which is less than twenty minutes away from Vancouver.
And I thought Seattle's access to ski resorts was impressive.

I keep watching Arsenal games and they keep winning.
Arteta is undeniably effective.
His decisions are questionable sometimes, but so far he has managed to produce answers for them.
Arsenal is poised to win the Premier League, but the margin of error afforded by Liverpool and Manchester City is negligible.
Everyone is thrilled to have three title contenders with only seven games left and nobody can predict who will win it.

I've also been working on the decor of our apartment.
I put up small floating shelves in our bedroom, which was intimidating because I was afraid to drill holes for wall anchors.
Bought a mirror for our plant corner in the living room.
Bought a rubber plant, a ficus elastica.
Continually propagating my pothos snippings and planting them in nursery pots.
In addition to Never Too Small, which I've been watching for years now, I've started watching videso by a small new YouTuber [Noah Daniel](https://www.youtube.com/@noahdaniel.studio), who is an interior designer with a passion for [modern architecture](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Modern_architecture) and design.

We've been exploring the neighborhoods around us and loving it.
As I walk, I try to look through Jane Jacobian lenses at the diversity of enterprise and use about.
A gym offering _luxury fight goods and apparel_ in the middle of a short block that also houses a plant shop, a shop offering laundry service, a shop for kitchen renovations, a small counterservice cafe offering "Italian street food", a nail studio, a print shop, a beauty salon, a travel agency, an importer's office, a Vietnamese restaurant, and a hip diner.
All on one side of the street, below two stories of condos.

At their best, cities bring together people in quantities so great that critical mass can be reached for projects and enterprises that can't survive in sparser and less diverse communities in suburban and rural areas.
Near our place, within a block of one of the liveliest streets in the city, there is a building that houses a gallery, a secondhand clothing shop, a shop for locally made trinkets, and a coworking space.
They appear to be run by the same collective, which hosts stand up comedy nights, workshops, and other events in the gallery and coworking spaces.
I'm both delighted and surprised that they have sustained for a couple years already.

On a late evening walk on my own I walked past a theatre that I didn't know anything about.
I looked up what shows they had coming up and saw that Vieux Farka Touré was playing that week.
Only after I confirmed that he was the artist who had released a collaborative album with Khruangbin, I realized the show was sold out.
While working the next day I listened to his KEXP live studio performance.
It sounded great.
On the day of the show, I called the theatre a couple times and was able to snag a couple tickets.
Z and I went, and it was amazing.
The band was the same as in the KEXP live performance: a bassist, a percussionist, and Vieux Farka Touré.
All the instruments sounded great, especially the percussion and the guitar, but it might have been Vieux Farka Touré's voice that was most special.
I've since returned to _Ali_, his album with Khruangbin, and confirmed that it doesn't do justice to his singing.

<iframe style="border-radius:12px" width="100%" height="400" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/18YKj7oF76g?si=dVnr1D1wsZQ9wG66" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

TODO: Improv.

### Travel

Diversity and variety must exist like nowhere else in New York City.
Z and I are going in May.
Also, we're going to Tofino for my mom's birthday soon.

### Work

A couple weeks ago I silently celebrated my two year anniversary working on Microsoft Loop.
It's the longest I've worked on a single product or team and by far the one I've enjoyed the most.
The problems are interesting, the work is in line with my career goals, the product is exciting, the people are great, the work life balance is stellar.

Although I had a dip in motivation several weeks ago, I've been quite motivated recently.
Managing one's motivation is a nonobvious and little discussed but essential skill.
Over the years I've recognized it as such and tried to improve at it.

### Coding

I implemented hoverboxes on this site!
If you're on a computer, hover over {% post_url_with_hover_card this link | 2024-02-19-now %} and you'll see a preview of my previous 'now' update.
It was nontrivial but educational to implement.
I've always liked the idea of doing DIY.
Does this count?

I haven't worked on my app [**Muze Radio**](https://okjuan.me/muze-radio) for a couple months.
Spotify denied my request for an [extended quota](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/concepts/rate-limits), which would allow anyone with Spotify Premium to use it.
I addressed their silly reason and resubmitted the request.
It's been just over six weeks, which is their expected turnaround time.
On the Spotify Dashboard, I see a message banner stating that _The review is taking longer than expected_.
Yeah, I know.
I suppose I can't be too annoyed though.
It's free.
Once they accept my request for my app, I'll probably have motivation to resume work on it.

### Reading

Between Me and You: Confessions of a Comma Queen

Room to Dream

The Passenger

New Yorker article on Female Violence

Temple Grandin's Visual Thinking

The Death and Life of Great American Cities

### Writing

Reviews: Wild at Heart and Dune Part 2

my career #2

technical difficulties at Hailu Mergia

### TV

True Detective S4.

The Curse

Veep

The Other Two

The Office

### Movies

Wild at Heart

The Zone of Interest

Dune Part 2

### What's next?
