---
layout: post
title: what I'm doing now
permalink: /now-jun-11-2024
tags: journal
---

New York, Tofino, patio furniture, reading, writing, and more.

<!--more-->

### interior design

An odd perk of splitting my time between Seattle and Vancouver has been furnishing and decorating a second apartment, a task for which I have enough gusto to do twice over.
More than twice, actually.
I told my friend that I would love to help them design their space if they would humor me.
I told one particular friend, who finds furnish and decorating stultifying, that when he buys his house, I will invite myself over and personally hang the artwork and mirror that have been leaning against his apartment walls for years.
I'm even toying with the idea of making TikToks or Instagram reels about my amateur interest in interior design.
I already have the topic for the initial video: how to get cheap artwork that you love.

### lounging on the balcony

Among the finest decisions I've made recently is buying patio furniture for our balcony.
I bought it secondhand for $420 USD ($575 CAD), delivery included, and within a week have spent many more minutes (in either currency) lounging, reading, writing, and working on it.
It was something I had in the back of my mind for a few months until it sprung to the top after spending a few glorious hours in cushy seating on the sunny balcony of our Tofino airnbnb.
I prowled Facebook Marketplace for several days until I pulled the trigger on this set, spending more on it than I was hoping to, but ending up very satisfied (and confident that we will recoup a good deal of the principal when we resell in a year or two.)

Furnishing the balcony has added to our one bedroom apartment a whole new space to be in.
It's like a tree house, a storey off the ground tucked away behind a variety of leafy growth.
Through the branches in the evening lays the orange pink sunset silhouetting cranes on the port and beyond them the Vancouver skyline.
It's the perfect place to read and write.

### reading

I have a knack for picking up new books even while I have already a few on the go and it amuses me as if it were actual mischief.
My main book is __The Death and Life of Great American Cities__, which I've been reading since last fall.
I'm about 75% done, but taking my time, letting the ideas marinate.

With Libby and Spotify, it's easy to try out audiobooks, which are great for listening while doing activities with low mental demand like driving, cooking, and cleaning.
- audiobooks: Rest, which was underwhelming but thought-provoking, e.g. regarding the Default Mode Network
- audiobooks: Debt, the first 5,000 years. David Graeber seems like one of the most interesting intellectuals of recent time.

Otherwise, what I read is dictated by things going on in my life and in my head.
Having recently returned from a {% post_url_with_hover_card trip to nyc | 2024-05-26-nyc-trip %}, I finally cracked open my copy of [_Destinations_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462198.Destinations) -- a compilation of essays Jan Morris wrote for Rolling Stone -- to read her piece about Manhattan.
Also, I resumed Gloria Steinem's [_Revolution From Within_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/335090.Revolution_from_Within) since I've been thinking a lot about self-esteem and {% post_url_with_hover_card ego | 2023-11-21-ego %}.
I also started reading [_remembered rapture_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51409.remembered_rapture), bell hooks's essays on writing, which is a topic I think about constantly.
This in turn lead me to Zora Neale Hurston's [_Their Eyes Were Watching God_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37415.Their_Eyes_Were_Watching_God), which bell hooks cites as one of the literary treasures recovered from obscurity by second wave feminism.
In fact, according to Wikipedia, new interest in Hurston's work was sparked by Alice Walker's 1975 article _In Search of Zora Neale Hurston_, which was published in _Ms._ -- Gloria Steinem's magazine!
A different Alice, the author of [_The Drama of the Gifted Child_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4887.The_Drama_of_the_Gifted_Child), came up in Steinem's book and led me on a different tangent, which ended with [this New Yorker article](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2012/04/23/drawn-from-life) about Bechdel.

Reading {% post_url_with_hover_card like this | 2023-01-28-choose-your-next-book %} is so much fun and, for me, a much more {% post_url_with_hover_card efficient | 2020-01-12-ditch-books %} use of my reading appetite.

### writing

Most of what I've {% post_url_with_hover_card written | 2024-06-04-blue-note %} {% post_url_with_hover_card recently | 2024-06-01-bushwick %} has to do with New York, but I also finally wrote a review of {% post_url_with_hover_card The Passenger | 2024-06-15-the-passenger %}, Cormac McCarthy's last novel (not counting {% post_url_with_hover_card Stella Maris | 2024-01-15-stella-maris %}, its companion novel.)

### traveling

Z and I went to Tofino with my family for a week to celebrate my mom's birthday.
We spent time together, ate great meals, surfed on beautiful beaches, hung out at a wonderful airbnb near the heart of town, spent a day in an [outdoor spa in a private cove](https://www.moonjellyspa.ca/) bathing in hot tubs filled with seaweed, and even [saw the Northern Lights](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/May_2024_solar_storms).
Z and I want to go back.

A week later, Z and I went to {% post_url_with_hover_card NYC | 2024-05-26-nyc-trip %} to affirm our suspicion that we would like to live there before we have kids.
In the past, I've winged trips, but in the month leading up to this one, I dedicated some good hours to research and planning.
The time spent well worth it, rendering some of the most memorable experiences of the trip: Comedy Cellar, Village Vanguard, {% post_url_with_hover_card Blue Note | 2024-06-04-blue-note %}, Whitney Museum (for free), Tiny Cupboard Comedy Club, Roberta's, and SEY coffee.
Some of these I booked in advance, and the others I was aware of and pounced on when the opportunity arose.

### working

I've delivered some good results at work recently.
My tasks continue to be interesting and plenty.
However, it looks like my next promotion, which I was expecting in September, won't happen until December.
I'm disappointed, but when I reflect on it carefully, I notice it's not that important.
By no means do I _need_ to be promoted.
It's alluring because it's a quantifiable and salient achievement.
But it's not important one.

### coding

Spotify again rejected my request for an extended quota.
I emailed them back asking to speak to a real person.
No response.
It looks like it's going to be difficult to make [my app](https://okjuan.me/muze-radio/) available to all Spotify premium users, unfortunately.
That project is going to sit on the backburner for a while.

As for my other recent programming project -- this site -- I have some interesting new ideas.
To encourage myself to {% post_url_with_hover_card revise and rework posted pieces | 2024-04-25-what-2 %}, I want to re-order posts by their most recently edited date rather than their original publish date.
That way, I could breathe new life into old ideas that I failed to do justice on initial attempt and baptize them again as new pieces.
This aligns with the **dynamic** aspect of my {% post_url_with_hover_card virtual book | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %} idea.
A related idea I have for this site is to let (hypothetical) readers see past versions of each post, in the spirit of what I wrote in my essay {% post_url_with_hover_card The Virtual Book | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %} last year:

> What if a memoirist publishes a piece overlaid with their revisions to show the process of expression and expose the artifice of memoir?
> ...
> What if a novelist publishes a first-person novel in real time to make it feel like the character really exists and is experiencing events alongside the reader?
> What if the author then goes back and rewrites previous parts of the novel to show the decay of memory and its corruption in the construction of personal narratives?

One of my core interests, and one of the core passions behind this site, is the process of writing.
Interfaces that illuminate and accentuate that process intrigue me.

### watching TV

**Peep Show**.
Second watch.
So funny.

**Curb Your Enthusiasm**.
Hilarious.
Like **Peep Show**, soothing with its insanity.

**Baby Reindeer**, which was haunting, disturbing, and fantastic.

### watching movies

**Dream Scenario**.
Unsettling.
I kept oscillating between sympathy and disgust for the main character, which I think is the point.

**Challengers**.
Very entertaining.
I loved the toxic triangle between the three main characters: one chooses to be dominated, one needs to dominate, and one refuses to be dominated by willfully putting himself in an inferior position (thus dominating himself).
The codependence and power dynamics rang true until it fell a bit flat towards the end.

**Radical Wolfe**, documentary about writer Tom Wolfe (and former colleague of Gloria Steinem at _New York_ magazine).

---

### what's next?

Enjoying the rare and splendid sunny days of PNW summer.
Biking, paddleboarding, playing soccer, volleyball with friends.

I'm curious about playing goalkeeper for a new team.
I've been an outfield player exclusively for years, but I used to play goalie part-time and fill in when needed.
I miss it a bit.
And goalies are always in demand, so it should be an easy way to get more playing time.
Hopefully I'm not overestimating my skills in net.
I think I'll find out soon.

Weekend in Lake Cowichan with friends.

Friends visiting us for the weekend.

Cap Hill Block Party.
Most excited about seeing Chappell Roan, who is apparently great live.

Visit Prince Edward Island, before Z's mom and stepdad sell the house they have on the beach there.

---

TODO

Sofia Nino de Rivera
Kiefer
Kurt Rosenwinkel
Terrace Martin

plant care

covid

Keaton & Candace in Vancouver.

Arsenal
I stayed up all night to watch them at 4am.
Slept at 6:30am, woke in the afternoon.
