---
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #6"
permalink: /now-september-2024
tags: journal
---

<!--more-->

### getting injured

I've been getting a bit unlucky.
My first attempt at returning to soccer goalkeeping resulted in a badly sprained finger.
The xray showed "a couple tiny fragments of bone", which the hand doctor that I was later referred to desribed as "technically a break".
To him, I relayed the playful question my friend has asked: what happens to the bits of bone?
Yes, he confirmed, they get "resorbed".
(I'd used the word humorously, but it turned out to be a real word.)

A few weeks later, back in the outfield, my domain, I took a meanly struck soccer ball to the back of the head.
In my couple decades of playing soccer, I've headed many, many balls deliberately and even taken several to the face.
But I can't recall ever getting hit so firmly on the back of the head, or it ever hurting so much.
The real headache, though, was navigating the {% post_url_with_hover_card quagmire of bureacratic medical advice | 2024-09-07-minor-concussion %}.
Was I really in mortal danger?

### visiting the Canadian east

Z and I spent a week in the Toronto area and then a week in Prince Edward Island.
It's embarrasing how much friendlier folks are over there compared to Vancouverites.
One of our theories on the subject is that it is easier to make friends in cities with more transplants, since they are circumstantially motivated to make connections.
People who have lived in a place for a long time already have an established social network and are therefore not incentivized to form new friendships.
Especially when the local culture is one of polite detachment.
In Vancouver, strangers walking past each other on the sidewalk rarely look at each other, even in residential neighborhoods.
It's very offputting for me and Z, seeing as we are warm and friendly people.

Before I moved to Seattle in 2019, I was warned of the _Seattle freeze_, the aloof attitudes of locals and their aversion towards making new friends.
But this stereotype has never matched my experience of Seattle.
Everyday I have friendly interactions with folks -- at the coffee shop, at the mailboxes, at the lake, on the street.
The generous spirit extends to include dogs, too, who can be found everywhere in the city, in grocery stores, in shops, in pubs, and even in restaurants.
I suspect that the tech boom and consequent influx of transplants -- from all over the US, Canada, and abroad -- has made the city a good place to make friends.
Notably, my friends here are almost exclusively _not_ from Seattle.
Several from Winnipeg and Victoria, one from Brooklyn, one from Arkansas, one from Connecticut, one from Montreal, one from Oregon, a few from the Midwest, and so on.

### forming a commune

One of my best friends just bought a house in West Seattle and a bunch of us are seriously considering moving in with him.
I would live upstairs with my friend and three of our friends would live in the groundlevel suite downstairs.
It's a thrilling prospect, even though it would mean giving up our lovely apartment in Capitol Hill.
I would really miss the proximity to urban life, but would love to live in a little complex with a bunch of people I really like.
According to an architecture book I'm currently reading, [_A Pattern Language_](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/A_Pattern_Language), that's how people should live.
It asserts that even couples should not live alone:

> ideally, every couple is a part of a larger group household...If this can not be so, try to build the house for the couple in such a way as to tie it together with some other households, to form the beginnings of a group household, or, if this fails, at least to form the beginnings of a House Cluster.

The catalyst for this potential move is that Z and I want to reduce the total we spend on rent across our two homes, mine in Seattle and hers in Vancouver.
But the change has the potential to be much more than a practical compromise.
With our friends living downstairs, we would realize the House Cluster.
The backyard, which includes a garden, would serve as "public land" connecting our households.

> People will not feel comfortable in their houses unless a group of houses forms a cluster, with the public land between them jointly owned by all the householders.

Even if I don't end up moving, I am very excited to help my friend plan, furnish, and decorate his new space.
And the book is serving as perfect inspiration

### reading & writing

There's something strangely satisfying about starting a new book while traveling.
While in Toronto and PEI, I returned to _A Pattern Language: Towns, Buildings, Construction_, a book I'd perused a few years ago.
I was reminded of the book while writing my personal list of essential homemaking ingredients and came up with a good title: {% post_url_with_hover_card my pattern language | 2024-08-19-my-pattern-language %}.
I've been thinking about writing a piece like that for a while and, when I finally started, it gripped me like a fever.
One of my favorite moments of my PEI visit was writing while sitting at a bench on the deck looking out over the couple kilometers of green pastures connecting me to the Atlantic ocean.

The last couple months have been a fertile time for my writing.
I wrote {% post_url_with_hover_card a vignette | 2024-08-02-bob-the-handyman %} about a handyman that fixed my kitchen cabinet a couple years ago, and I even {% post_url_with_hover_card wrote about writing it | 2024-08-02-bob-the-handyman %}.
I wrote about the book {% post_url_with_hover_card The End Of Absence | 2024-08-11-end-of-absence %} and about a related thought I had {% post_url_with_hover_card on boredom | 2024-08-11-boredom %}.
I wrote a {% post_url_with_hover_card second entry | 2024-08-11-rules-2 %} on the topic of rules and a {% post_url_with_hover_card third | 2024-08-12-tell-a-story-3 %} on the topic of storytelling.

The latter compared the writing between _House of the Dragon_ and _The Sopranos_, and with Z's encouragement [I shared it on r/HouseOfTheDragon](https://www.reddit.com/r/HouseOfTheDragon/comments/1etvqml/why_house_of_the_dragon_is_good_but_the_sopranos/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button) and I received some encouraging responses.
It was the first time I shared my writing with complete strangers and I intend to do it again.
I think it's a great way to motivate diligence in my thinking and writing and to test my reasoning.
(It so happens that, today, I came across a [fellow programmer/writer's blog](https://jsomers.net/) and noticed that he posted his writing [on r/TrueLit](https://www.reddit.com/r/TrueLit/comments/wdjzuu/youre_probably_using_the_wrong_dictionary/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button).)

Hegel, A Short Introduction.

Hume, A Short Introduction.

Listening Book during camping.

### enjoying the last stretch of summer

Yesterday we went on our last paddleboarding session of the summer.
It was a worthy finale.
We paddled up through Lake Union to a brewery perched on the water's edge, intentionally made accessible to boats and other aquatic vehicles.

### watching TV

While in PEI, I started watching _Lost_, which is one of my friend's alltime favorite, and Z started watching _Brooklyn 99_.
I'm not sure why, but there really is something pleasing about starting something new while on a trip away from home.
Change of routine feels right alongside a change of environment.

I started rewatching _Mad Men_.
This time around, I much more easily recognize Don Draper's extreme immaturity.
It hides so well behind his restrained eloquence and impressive jawline.
I also notice that Peter Campbell is offered as a character foil.
He's unsuave and much less handsome, but similarly insecure and helpless.
If only he knew how unfulfilled Don is, despite enjoying all the potency and respect Peter envies.

### coding

Modified dates in /vbook.

---

### what's next?

We're going to Japan for two weeks over Xmas!
I've never been and I'm very excited to go.
I intend to spend time researching, planning, and learning about Japan over the next few months.

I expect to be promoted to Senior Software Engineer in December.
I should know by November.
We'll see.
I've been at Microsoft five years now, so I'm neither early nor late.

I'll be playing a lot of soccer over the next few months.
I hope that'll naturally help me resume weight loss.
I lost fifteen pounds in the latter half of last year and I've maintained since then.
I would still like to lose another twentyfive pounds.

I'll be watching every Arsenal game that I can.
They are widely recognized as contenders to win the league, even more so than they were a year ago.
It's exciting and unnerving.
The season is so long.

I'm overhauling Z's Vancouver apartment.
I changed the pendant light above the dinner table and I'm in the process of swapping the couch.
There are many more things I plan to do.
Replace the coffee table, install bedside wall lamps, hang up the TV, and make space for the practice drumkit Z intends to buy.
I'm motivated by my excitement.
If anything it's hard to stop thinking about it.

Sadly, summer is over.
But I also love the fall.
I'm looking forward to the coziness that comes with it.
For me, September is a very nostalgic month.
The sudden turn in weather reminds me of the beginning of the school year, a time I found thrilling.
It feels like the opening montage of the first episode of a new season of a TV show.