---
layout: post
title: what I'm doing now
permalink: /now-feb-03-2024
tags: journal
---

<!--more-->

### Life

My weight loss progress has slowed.
I've noticed my weight fluctuating within a 10lb range in the last month.
I'm going to be patient and keep working on small, daily habits that have worked so far.
Playing soccer, going for walks, eating vegetables, eating more slowly and mindfully, and not finishing my serving just because it's served.

After a month of not playing soccer, I was excited to get back on the pitch.
At my first game back, there was a middle-aged man [recording the game]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2024-01-31-man-with-a-custom-tripod %}) from the sidelines with a camera mounted on a tall tripod.
Only a few weeks ago I was wishing I had videos of my matches over the years.
Since watching this recent one, I've been working on moving off the ball better.
Adjust my position in anticipation of where the ball will be next.

I still haven't gone snowboarding this season, but I went with Z, Z's mom, and Z's stepdad to [Harrison Hot Springs]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2024-02-01-hot-springs %}).
The Vancouver area is stunning after a good snow.
The hills speckled with evergreen and white, and the snow-capped mountains beyond.
We stopped at Bridal Veil Falls on the way back.
They were frozen solid, it was a sight.

Z won tickets for Canucks vs Blackhawks from a raffle at work, so we went to our first ever [Canucks game]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url /2024-02-03-hockey-game %}).

### Work

Took a few weeks to get back into the groove.

### Coding

Muze Radio!

### Reading

[What the Doomsayers Get Wrong About Deepfakes](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2023/11/20/a-history-of-fake-things-on-the-internet-walter-j-scheirer-book-review)

[An App Can Be A Home-Cooked Meal](https://www.robinsloan.com/notes/home-cooked-app/)

Stella Maris

Mr. Palomar

Circe

The Relationship Handbook

The Death and Life of Great American Cities

### Writing

### TV

The Wire.

### Movies

Anatomy of a Fall

### What's next?