---
modified_date: 2025-02-01
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #9"
permalink: /now-feb-1-2025
tags: journal
---

Enjoying snowy scenery, thinking of sentences, and watching movies.
<!--more-->

### enjoying snowy scenery

Vancouver, Seattle, and Victoria are three points that form a jagged triangle in the Pacific Northwest marking the area of the world where I've lived about half my life now.
A week ago it snowed in all three cities, as it tends to in February, but in Seattle the snow didn't keep while in Vancouver and Victoria the residential streets are still covered in crumpled sheets of ice.
Of the three Vancouver is the most scenic and on clear days following snowfall its natural beauty takes your breath away.

### thinking of sentences

I've found myself formulating sentences in my head, playing their structure, sounding them out mentally.
I'll get an idea of something to write about while showering or looking out from the balcony and I'll start imagining the beginning of the potential piece.
All this without writing anything down.
{% vbook_post Verlyn Klinkenborg | 2023-02-25-several-short-sentences %} would be proud.

### watching movies

Z and I finally watched _Interstellar_.
It turned out neither of us had seen it.
It started a bit poorly but things really picked up once they shot off into space.
Nolan loves to experiment with the concept of time and this attempt was neither his best nor his worst.

I also recently watched _A Different Man_.
I can see why The New Yorker and Thomas Flight said it pairs well with _The Substance_.
Two excruciating stories on the topic of self-image and self-esteem.

---

### what's next?
