---
layout: post
title: how to edit your writing
theme: write
permalink: /editing-yourself
tags: editing
---

The idea: go through an old essay and critique and analyze it
---

Let's start with the first sentence:
> Humanity’s attention to aesthetics is so instinctive, so ancient, and so tremendously influential on essentially all human activity, that it becomes terribly easy to overlook: from the subtle beauty of a modern smart phone’s sleek design, possibly the emblem of modern society, to the Temple of Artemis, a mesmerizing architectural work and one of the seven wonders of the ancient world, the human species’ ardor for aesthetic pleasure is faithfully represented.

Wow.
That's one sentence.
I see a good studious boy writing his thesis statement.

The rest of the essay:
(From an email dated November 6, 2014)

Humanity’s attention to aesthetics is so instinctive, so ancient, and so tremendously influential on essentially all human activity, that it becomes terribly easy to overlook: from the subtle beauty of a modern smart phone’s sleek design, possibly the emblem of modern society, to the Temple of Artemis, a mesmerizing architectural work and one of the seven wonders of the ancient world, the human species’ ardor for aesthetic pleasure is faithfully represented. Immediately, the obvious questions arise: what is the origin of such a potent drive? Is identification of the sources of aesthetic appeal possible through science and mathematics? As Sigmund Freud quite simply stated it in [1]: “there is no evident use in beauty;” the instinct’s lack of correlation with an essential body function is truly mysterious. Such thoughts are as intriguing as they are relevant, considering how quickly, in human civilization, the value of a person or object seems to increase in respect to its potential as a source of beauty.

Aesthetics, due to its abstract nature and vastness as a topic, can quickly become difficult to illustrate; however, the idea of the “Golden Ratio” in geometric mathematics, being a highly applicable yet relatively simple concept, proves a great aid in such discourse. Remarkably, the golden ratio has upheld lofty status amongst architects, painters, mathematicians, astronomers, and musicians for a long, long time: one of the earliest pieces of evidence survives from 4700 BC, when the Ancient Egyptians applied the very same ratio – which they saw as “sacred” – in the design of the Great Pyramid of Giza. Perhaps even more memorably, the golden ratio was bountifully represented in many of Leonardo Da Vinci’s works: as described in [4], the Mona Lisa and “The Last Supper” both contain numerous examples of the “Divine Proportion”; the seemingly supernatural aesthetic perfection found in these works is not only due to the original Renaissance Man’s tremendous artistic disposition, but also his intellect’s remarkable mathematical capacity. Perhaps it does not come as too great a surprise that the mesmerizing serenity of the “Mona Lisa” and the captivating image of “The Last Supper” share a source: indeed, it is the golden number, “phi”. Both these paintings’ proportionality is heavily guided by this oddly pleasing ratio; Da Vinci’s understanding of phi’s impact on aesthetics, in conjunction to his artistic ability to apply such vision, allowed the illustrious mastermind to realize the genius of his ideas into such projects. As a matter of fact, as described in [4], Da Vinci showcases precisely this ability in his illustrations for Luca Pacioli’s book, “De Divina Proportione” (The Divine Proportion), where he creates sketches specifically conceived to embody the golden ratio. It is important to note, nevertheless, that the prevalence and effectiveness of phi in art is not restricted by the painting style; the abstract painting “Yellow, Red, Blue” by Wassily Kandinsky, prominent Russian painter of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, also holds in its basic structure, the golden ratio. Though ostensibly chaotic, the painting produces a satisfying whole; due to the careful balance of colors and forms (in addition to use of the golden ratio), even an onlooker who is completely ignorant of phi’s presence would be able to recognize a curiously pleasing aura to the work. Even while pursuing distinct styles of painting, Kandinsky and Da Vinci are able to induce powerful aesthetic pleasure through overarching application of the magical number, phi. However, as mentioned earlier, the marvelous product of the application of this irrational number (1.6180…) was studied long beforehand: the oldest known record of a definition for this ratio is found in Elements, the Ancient Greek Euclid’s most eminent work (c. 300 BC). As defined in Book 6 of the multi-volume work, a straight line is “cut in extreme and mean ratio” when the ratio of the original segment to the greater segment is as the ratio of the greater segment to the lesser. In the field of aesthetics, a remarkable breakthrough was made with the discovery, definition, and application of this number, considering both its prevalence in human practices and presence in nature. A rather acclaimed scientist once offered the following: “look deep into nature, and then you will understand everything better”; and though perhaps a tad mawkish on the surface, certain truth lies in Albert Einstein’s advise. Similar to its prominence in human civilization, phi is omnipresent in nature’s designs, from the head of a sunflower, to the spiral of a shell, even to the dimensions of a human face; from this simple connection arises the concept of beauty – and human nature in general – as congruent to the natural makeup of the universe, which, once considered, is actually quite an intuitive conclusion. If the human sense of beauty is truly derived from the aesthetics of the natural world and human nature is truly a product of its environment, then the tendency to view – sometimes even judge (i.e. whether or not to trust) – the environment, objects and people by their aesthetic appeal is, in fact, an adaptation. While rational ability enables humans to – quite literally – dominate the planet, the exceptional trait is also, to certain extents, a burden: for each great discovery, another thousand questions, often far more challenging to tackle, materialize. From these simple axioms, the logical conclusion that emerges is that the desire for beauty may simply exist to “compensate for a great deal” of life’s suffering (Freud in [1]).

In the same way that studying the universe’s laws of operation can render new treasures of knowledge, study of human behavioral tendencies sheds insight into the individual’s universe: the mind. And when venturing into the field of psychology, few names carry weight in the way that Sigmund Freud’s does. His famous efforts popularized psychoanalysis, the study of the interaction between the conscious and unconscious elements of the mind as an approach to psychotherapy; in short, psychoanalysis aims to better understand human mental (pun intended) processes. The field acquires its relevance to aesthetics through its ambition to identify and analyze a human being’s inherent predilections, and, quite sensibly, the desire for pleasure can be considered an exemplary case. As stated in [2], Sigmund Freud’s ‘pleasure principle’ defines the instinctual search for pleasure as a human “biological and psychological [need]”; however, even though pleasure’s pivotal role in human behavior is quite clear, “the necessity of it for cultural purposes is not apparent, and yet civilization could not do without it” (excerpt from [1]). Freud, otherwise convinced that psychoanalysis could offer no more to the strange nature of beauty than science could, confidently identified the desire for beauty as a byproduct of “the field of sexual feeling;” this perspective echoes of Darwin’s “sexual selection”, a process by which organisms choose their mates based on a combination of their “decorative beauty” and “fitness of form for purpose”, as described in [6]. Similarly to how the ability to experience pleasure – particularly outside a sexual context – may be viewed as a human adaptation engineered to help relieve the individual from suffering, sexual organisms inherit a better chance at survival when “beautifully adapted”, that is, capable of inducing aesthetic pleasure. In this manner, the desire for beauty is merely an evolutionary process.

In conclusion, multiple, contrasting sources of aesthetic pleasure may be found when the topic is addressed from different angles; from resemblance to nature, to fine geometric construction, to mate selection, the beauty of the world around may stem from several distinct sources. However, the significance of beauty in our world manifests itself in all examples: humans, being beauty-seeking animals, will always heed the allure of an aesthetically pleasure, whether the source has strong adaptive traits to offer or simply a mysterious mathematical anomaly.

Bibliography
[1] (Book) Civilization and Its Discontents by Sigmund Freud; (1961); Translated & Edited by James Strachey (c 1961)
[2] (Book) Positive Psychology: The Scientific And Practical Explorations of Human Strengths by C.R. Snyder, Shane J. Lopez, & Jennifer T. Pedrotti;
[3] (Book) The Golden Ratio by Mario Livio
[4] (Book) Elements (Book 6) by Euclid
[5] (Website) site name: “The Golden Number”; page title: “Da Vinci & the Divine Proportion in Art Composition”;
Gary Meisner; July 7, 2014;
<< http://www.goldennumber.net/leonardo-da-vinci-golden-ratio-art/ >>
[6] (Website) site name: “Darwin: Endless Forms”; page title: “Darwin, Beauty, & Sexual Selection”;
<< http://www.darwinendlessforms.org/gallerydarwin/darwin-beauty-and-sexual-selection/ >>
[7] (Website) site name: “Museum of the Golden Ratio”; page title: “Wassily Kandinsky”;
<< http://museumofthegoldenratio.org/wassily_kandinsky.htm >>
[8] (Video) “Donald Duck in MathMagic Land”; Walt Disney Production;
<< https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U_ZHsk0-eF0 >>